thank you, madam president. commissioner, it's always a pleasure to have you here with us. i would also like to welcome the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato. it has done important work and it has sent parliament a series of decisions which, as you very well point out, belong to us. i would like to support the amendment tabled by the socialists and democrats, which stresses the importance of combating monopolies in fisheries. although the internal allocation of quotas is a matter for the member states, it is up to the european union to make a positive contribution to small-scale fisheries such as those in regions such as the azores and madeira. if we continue to support the large-scale initiatives, we will be strangling the pole-and-line fisheries, such as those in the outermost regions of the atlantic. i repeat the need to respect scientific recommendations and to use the precautionary principle without sparing. too many fish aggregating devices are still being used in tuna fishing without a serious environmental impact study being carried out.
madam president, the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna has allowed the stocks to develop positively. the biomass of this species has been showing a positive trend since 2008. in 2014, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas decided to increase the tac by 20% for the subsequent 3 years from 2015 to 2017. we, for our part, support criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes the more sustainable small-scale fisheries to the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers. the role of the artisanal frames used in the south of portugal, in the algarve, their potential and selectivity should be recognised. it is also important to recognize that island fishermen who use the jumping rod technique and who today spend their time fishing for bluefin tuna without being able to do so, it is important that these sinners should have their right to fish for this species recognised, especially now that catch limits are being adjusted to improve the resource, which, for example in the case of fishermen in the azores, would only partially compensate for the damage caused by the sharp declines in the stocks of another species.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the members very much for their views and opinions again. i fully respect and understand all of their concerns. let me come back to the most important questions. first, let me underline again that the commission did not ignore any signals before: neither in 2006 when we worked on a proposal for euro 5/6 in order to bring emissions down – although this was for laboratory testing, and that has to be stressed – nor in 2011 and 2012 when it was the jrc, not anybody else, who indicated for the first time that there is a problem with the real driving emissions. we now have to finish this process with a positive vote. we cannot make any new proposals on conformity factors, firstly because member states will not change their views, and secondly because it would extremely delay the whole process. to make things very clear: if we do not have rules in place by 2017, we will maintain this situation with 4-5 times higher emissions in real driving – in real life – and have 4-5 times more pollution. rejection implies that we will not have rules in 2017, and we will have to explain to our citizens why we now have 500 mg/km of nox emissions and have not done anything to reduce it to 168 mg/km. i feel, of course, that a consensus can emerge. let me outline a possible way forward without new proposals on conformity factors: the commission is ready to make a declaration for the plenary vote next month, outlining the solution that we discussed today, so i can honestly commit to activating the annual revision clause for the second conformity factor as soon as possible next year. this is more or less the same as reducing the second conformity factor. you can take this as my personal commitment too, and the second one is that we will adopt the reinforced type approval system on real driving emissions. i can commit to these two things before you now without making new proposals for conformity factors. i hope that this will allow you – or at least some of you – to cast a positive vote on the proposals on real driving emissions in the next 2 or 3 weeks’ time.
many european countries today face serious air quality problems, particularly in urban centres where there is a high population density and traffic. the european commission has been working for several years to develop a more reliable process for measuring nitric oxide emissions to reflect those under real driving conditions. this process was based on proper technical and scientific analysis, which is now being called into question under political pressure from member states and industry. this proposal for a delegated act is shameful because it is not based on objective technical criteria and because it was taken without any transparency, subverting the democratically approved political objectives in the basic legislative document. it is particularly shameful, following the volkswagen scandal, that it gives companies that do not comply with, or that falsify, european emission standards, a competitive advantage over those that already comply. i express my support for the position taken by the envi commission i consider this to be in the public interest; i'm taking your side!
in writing. if there are powerful lobbies within the eu institutions, and particularly within the one with the power of legislative initiative the european commission , influencing legislative proposals and leaving their indelible mark on them, one of these lobbies is the automotive industry. the developments surrounding the volkswagen emissions-manipulation scandal only confirm this fact. a technical committee of the european commission proposes to allow euro 6 diesel cars to emit more than twice the previously established limits between 2017 and 2019, allowing a 110% discrepancy between laboratory tests (which the industry manipulates more or less widely) and tests under real conditions. from 2020, this discrepancy could be as high as 50%, i.e. emissions 50% above the previously set limits. all this without any scientific backing. the commission's stated environmental ambition is thus at the doorstep of the vast interests of the multinational car companies. it is essential that measurements under real conditions are made as quickly as possible. but it is essential that they move forward in ways that ensure adequate protection of the environment and public health, and not the protection of the interests of multinationals against the people and the environment.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it will certainly be an important part, but without concrete action, there is nothing here but abstract declarations of intent. the contradiction of what this report proclaims is that the european union is the first to stigmatise distant cultures, when it erects external borders and expels those who want to come to the territory of the european union, promoting the idea of cultural supremacy in a european union with impassable borders. what is the european union doing when it conflates the problem of migration with threats to people's security? is the european union not the first to stigmatise migrants in so many speeches and conclusions, for example, of the european council? education, yeah. but it is through social inclusion that barriers and prejudices are, in practice, destroyed.
madam president, if we blame the crisis of 2007 on a supposed lack of regulation, we are misdiagnosing. we are, at the same time, creating an illusion, implying that the financial system can be disciplined. we are creating the illusion that it is possible to align the interests of banks and investment funds with the interests of the people and the workers. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism do not work and do not solve the problems of the financial system, as we have seen recently in portugal, where information has been systematically concealed and manipulated with the consent of the supervisory agents. the problem of the big financial institutions, so-called too big to fail, is not solved by mere palliatives, which are only intended to try to give the impression that something is being done, while everything remains the same. the problem is solved by the separation of banking and public control of the financial system, as time will soon take care to prove us right.
mr president, as a consequence of liberal policies, the painful reality is that unemployment, poverty and inequality have female faces. in all these indicators, women consistently rank ahead of men. to try to combat this reality with this new and modern panacea of entrepreneurship is totally illusory it claims to cure the disease with the agent responsible for the same disease. the problem of gender discrimination in employment is tackled with progressive legislation that promotes quality, stable and well-paid employment. we cannot promote precariousness, which leads to female unemployment, and then come here to defend female entrepreneurship. if we want gender equality, we must create the conditions for all women to be full citizens. this implies job security, combating all practices of gender discrimination and quality public services that can ensure health and education for all children. unfortunately, this is not the direction of european union policy at present, but it will be one day, with the struggle of women and all workers.
mr president, with unemployment rates of around 30% or more, it is clear what young people can expect from the european union. the policies and measures of the european union, particularly in recent years, in the countries where the troika has intervened, have condemned young people to unemployment, precariousness and forced emigration. the policies of labour deregulation, low wages, the discharge of the state from responsibility for employment policies, the commodification of education with its increased costs of attendance, and the prevalence of the acquisition of skills and market orientation to the detriment of the individual's integral training: all this contributes to the dramatic situation faced today by millions of young workers. so do not sell us false solutions, such as entrepreneurship, the new snake's-slug of neoliberalism, or so-called mobility, another name for forced emigration. the solution is to break with these policies, break with those who impose them. the present and future of young people depend on it.
mr president, still under the cloak of the intense propaganda surrounding the so-called banking union, yet another banking scandal - the banif scandal - has broken out in portugal, revealing the intrinsic capacity of the banking regulation and supervision system, concepts which, as is plain to see, are nothing but a complete fraud. in what constitutes a genuine economic crime, after €1 billion of public resources poured into banif in 2013, the portuguese state is now in practice financing a large foreign bank with at least €2,5 billion to acquire banif and thus strengthen its presence in the national market. the state acts as a loss depository and clearing agent to deliver the bank risk-free and loss-free to the santander group, when it could and should have taken public control of banif, ensuring its management in the national interest. it is important to clarify fully and to clarify to the last detail the responsibilities of the european commission in this process. to this end, we have already put a written question to the european commission, which we hope will be answered quickly.
in writing. after another rotating presidency, the same policies and, of course, the same problems affecting europe, its people and its workers persist. in the face of the disastrous effects of austerity, we are seeing a flight forward, with the deepening of the most harmful aspects of economic integration. at the same time, the eu is completely insensitive and ineffective in the face of the plight of refugees fleeing a war supported and financed by the eu. in tax matters, this presidency, the responsibility of a country with a disgraceful record of promoting tax fraud and evasion, has continued to witness the mechanisms for concealing all relevant information necessary to promote a consistent fight against tax havens and other instruments of tax evasion. in this sense, the balance can only be negative. of course, this is not surprising, since we are not in the process of capitalist integration, which promotes the concentration of wealth at the expense of exploitation and impoverishment.
the luxembourg presidency faced a very difficult political context. the effort made to maintain lines of dialogue between all european countries and the european institutions in response to the challenges posed by migratory and refugee flows should be emphasised. progress has been made in cooperation with a view to common security while addressing threats to the free movement of persons and goods. these results are also the result of the good relationship between the presidency and the european parliament. in the area of creating conditions for financial strength in the european union and in particular in the euro area, the luxembourg presidency has not been achieved. the banking union did not start with the structure and resources needed to deal with the difficulties of the european financial system, regulation showed signs of great fragility and the fight against evasion and aggressive fiscal policies did not advance. the luxembourg presidency has failed where it should have succeeded. the strengthening of the transparency and robustness of the european financial system and its relationship to economic competitiveness and job creation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the rapid evolution of the internet and communications has changed the way we communicate, do business and consume within the internal market. it is urgent to keep up with this reality and it is urgent that european legislation should accompany the transition to the digitalisation of our market, with all the benefits and opportunities it represents for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the labour market and, above all, consumers. i congratulate the commission on having made the digital single market strategy one of its priorities, which is a good strategy overall, but which needs to be worked on, reducing the legal fragmentation of the single market, and that all 16 proposals are put into practice as soon as possible and in a harmonised way. otherwise we risk becoming a digital island and europe has no time to lose in this area. i welcome the proposals put forward last december on the supply of digital content, the online sale of products and the cross-border portability of online services and content. finally, i believe that particular attention should be paid to data portability, online security and the processing of personal data. a digital europe that does not protect its citizens will surely be a failed europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, aligning the european union with the digital revolution means creating a single market, but it means going much further than that. it is essential to lay the foundations for a european digital identity, incorporating the common values we share: freedom of expression, equal opportunities for access for people and businesses, the free movement of goods and services, data sharing, ensuring individual privacy, and the collective efficiency of public services. all these are values, part of a european heritage, which we must transfer to the digital union. this report makes a good contribution to a path we must continue to follow. i congratulate the rapporteurs. it is important to give more europeans access to digital services and resources, and this will open up new opportunities for investment, growth and jobs. it will also open up new opportunities for retraining and for research and technological innovation. in a time of despondency, here's a mobilizing agenda. we have to make it happen as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ last august, the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate, requesting authorisation to take action against member czesław adam siekierski for a traffic offence. as the polish constitution provides that no criminal action may be brought against members of parliament or senate without the prior authorisation of the parliament or senate of which they are members, a decision of the european parliament is necessary to determine whether criminal action may be brought against mr siekierski. in this case, the request for waiver of the member's immunity was made as a result of an alleged infringement consisting of exceeding the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. it is apparent from the file that mr siekierski admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the time of the infringement, although he did not indicate on the relevant form whether or not he accepted the fine. the facts are not related to your activity as a member of the european parliament, agreeing to the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. here are the facts: the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 10 january 2015, when driving a vehicle, the member of parliament did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations which is 50 km/h when driving the vehicle at a speed of 77 km/h. the inspectorate-general also states that in response to a notification sent to mr siekierski on 19 january 2015, he submitted a statement admitting that he was driving the vehicle at the time of the infringement. the facts of which he is accused constitute a violation of article 92 (a) of the polish code of criminal procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity. that is why we voted to lift the immunity.
‒ i have voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czeslaw adam siekierski. the immunity shall be waived where the case falls within the scope of article 9 of protocol no 7, provided that there is no serious and well-founded suspicion that the criminal action is being brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of poland requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski in a criminal case initiated by the polish road traffic inspectorate, in which the member of the european parliament is accused of a traffic offence related to the breach of the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall enjoy in their own state the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament. in this context, and taking into account the provisions of the constitution of the republic of poland, a decision of the european parliament is necessary to determine whether criminal proceedings may be brought against mr czesław adam siekierski. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, it can be concluded, in the light of the circumstances of the case, that the alleged infringement is not related to the activity of mr czesław adam siekierski as a member of parliament, and there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. in these terms, and in the light of the report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of czesław adam siekierski.
‒ the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of the polish member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, on the grounds of a traffic offence. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 10 january 2015, when driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations (50 km/h) by driving at a speed of 77 km/h. i voted in favour of this report to give my colleague the opportunity to normalise this situation.
‒ this is a matter of internal polish justice, unrelated to the status of czesław adam siekierski as a member of parliament.
‒ in the context of an alleged traffic offence against polish road rules, the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate general requesting authorisation to take action against mr czesław adam siekierski. this situation fulfils the requirements for the application of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and therefore requires a decision by the european parliament to determine whether criminal proceedings may be brought against the member. however, since this offence is not related to his activity as a member of the european parliament, and since there is no evidence of an intention to persecute him, i have agreed to the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski, and i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 10 january 2015, when driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that, by driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. the congressman admitted he was driving the vehicle at the time of the violation. the facts of which he is accused constitute a violation of article 92 (a) of the polish code of criminal procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity. we voted to waive immunity.
‒ last september, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate, requesting authorisation to take action against mr czesław adam siekierski for a traffic offence. as the polish constitution provides that no criminal action may be brought against members of parliament or senate without the prior authorisation of the parliament or senate of which they are members, a decision of the european parliament is necessary to determine whether criminal action may be brought against mr siekierski. in this case, the request for waiver of the member's immunity was made as a result of an alleged infringement consisting of exceeding the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. it is apparent from the file that mr siekierski admitted that he was driving the vehicle at the time of the infringement, although he did not indicate on the relevant form whether or not he accepted the fine. the facts are not related to your activity as a member of the european parliament, agreeing to the waiver of parliamentary immunity
‒ this is the second report on a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. in this case, it is again a violation of the polish code of conduct. the difference this time is the speed at which the member was travelling: at 49 miles per hour in an area with a speed limit of 30 miles per hour. once again, the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious link with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity. that is why we voted to lift the immunity.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. the immunity shall be waived where the case falls within the scope of article 9 of protocol no 7, provided that there is no serious and well-founded suspicion that the criminal action is being brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor-general of poland requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski in a criminal case initiated by the polish road traffic inspectorate, in which the member of the european parliament is accused of a traffic offence related to the infringement of the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall enjoy in their own state the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament. in this context, and taking into account the provisions of the constitution of the republic of poland, a decision of the european parliament is necessary to determine whether criminal proceedings may be brought against mr czesław adam siekierski. according to the report of the committee on legal affairs, it can be concluded, in the light of the circumstances of the case, that the alleged infringement is not related to the activity of mr czesław adam siekierski as a member of parliament, and there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. in these terms, and in the light of the report, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of the polish elected member of the european parliament, czesław adam siekierski, for a traffic offence. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 10 january 2015, when driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations (50 km/h), when driving at a speed of 77 km/h. i voted in favour of this report to give my colleague the opportunity to normalise this situation.
‒ this is a matter of internal polish justice, unrelated to the status of czesław adam siekierski as a member of parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. this is a request from the prosecutor general of the republic of poland, concerning a case related to a traffic offence where, on 19 april 2015, allegedly driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations of 50 km/h when driving the vehicle at a speed of 79 km/h. it is therefore a judicial proceeding concerning conduct allegedly committed outside your mandate as an mep. in the absence of any reason to doubt the legitimate intention underlying this legal action and given the fulfilment of the conditions set out in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 10 january 2015, when driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that, by driving a vehicle, mr siekierski did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. the congressman admitted he was driving the vehicle at the time of the violation. the facts of which he is accused constitute a violation of article 92 (a) of the polish code of criminal procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity. we voted to waive immunity.
in the light of the recent developments in the fisheries sector, the commission has decided to extend the current fishing season to the year 2000. it is up to the european commission to draw up proposals which respect the recommendations of iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas). we are taking the necessary measures to collaborate on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, which ends in 2022. after several years of declining maximum allowable catches, there seems to be some growth, as there is scientific data proving that stocks have healthy levels of abundance. i agree with the rapporteur when he emphasises the objective of ensuring a level playing field for all operators involved in tuna fishing, including operators from third countries. otherwise, if other rules are applied to foreign fleets, all the efforts and restrictions applied to eu fishermen will have been in vain. i also appreciated the reference to artisanal frames, such as traditional frames (almadrabas), in the conservation of stock units. the european union should pay particular attention to these traditional frames, which contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks, as they are extremely selective. in addition, they have very little impact on marine ecosystems, thanks to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which has adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which expires in 2022. to allow the stock to be rebuilt, the plan provides for a gradual reduction in the level of total allowable catches between 2007 and 2011, fishing restrictions in certain zones and periods, a new minimum size, measures related to sport and recreational fishing activities and fishing and farming capacities, and strengthens the iccat joint international inspection programme. the current tac in 2015 is 15 821 tonnes, of which 9 372,9 tonnes are for the eu. the proposal contains technical measures, such as those relating to live transfer and caging operations for bluefin tuna, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate bluefin tuna quantities and releases, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observation programme, with which i agree.
‒ after the species had reached a critical state, the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in 2006, allowed a positive evolution of the stocks. the biomass of this species has been showing a positive trend since 2008. in 2014, iccat decided to increase the tac by 20% for the three subsequent years (2015 to 2017). we generally follow the rapporteur's positions. we also support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale fishing, which is more sustainable, for the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers, and we therefore voted in favour of the amendment. portugal does not currently have an extractive fishery for bluefin tuna. in the azores, only by-catches of other tuna shall be authorised. the portuguese annual quota for atum-rabilho, 332 tonnes in 2016, is almost entirely exhausted by the existing algarve frames. this situation was to be changed, taking account of the more favourable context for the conservation of the species, by increasing the national quota and by granting azorean fishermen, who fish by jumping and using rods, the right to exploit this resource, which is now more abundant in the waters of the archipelago.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the eu, which is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), adopted a multiannual plan for this tuna in 2006, which only ends in 2022. bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by iccat. every effort should be made to ensure that bluefin tuna continue to increase their stocks
‒ this proposal aims to ensure a uniform and effective application throughout the european union of all recovery plan measures adopted between 2012 and 2014 by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. i agree with the rapporteur that uniform application should in principle ensure a level playing field for all tuna fishermen, including, in particular, those from third countries. the rapporteur warns that if other rules are applied to foreign fleets, all the effort and restrictions applied to eu fishermen will have been in vain. european union operators should not be penalised with more severe measures than those agreed. i also agree with the rapporteur's position on the specificities of the different tuna fishing gear. the role of artisanal farming, such as traditional farming, in the conservation of stocks and that, in the implementation of the recovery plan, the european union should pay particular attention to these traditional farming systems, which contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks, given that they are highly selective.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. iccat is the regional fisheries management organisation (rfm) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas and has the authority to adopt binding recommendations which are subsequently to be transposed into union law. the proposal in question contains technical measures, relating, for example, to the transfer and caging of live bluefin tuna, the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate bluefin tuna quantities and releases, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme. the rapporteur generally considers that the proposal is a good transposition of the iccat recommendations. however, amendments were made to ensure that the recommendations are applied uniformly and that their transposition remains a joint competence of parliament and the council. i voted in favour.
‒ bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, which in 2006 adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan ending in 2022. i voted in favour of this report, which currently sets the total allowable catch at 15 821 tonnes, with the eu's share at 9 372.9 tonnes, given its importance for the fishermen of my region, the azores. fishermen have made considerable efforts to adjust their catches to the strict conditions set out in the plan. for this reason, and with a view to ensuring uniform and effective application throughout the european union, the proposal contains technical measures, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the quantities of bluefin tuna and releases.
‒ according to the rapporteur, the recovery observed in recent years in the bluefin tuna stocks justifies the decision to bring forward to 2016 the tac (total allowable catch) for 2017 (23155 tonnes), which will still be well below the tac in force before the recovery plan enters into force. the s&d group has nevertheless succeeded in getting an amendment adopted to protect small fishermen against any form of monopoly, because it is a bit punitive for small fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, gabriel mato, has done an important job and he refers to parliament a set of decisions which, as he points out, belong to parliament. this, combined with the importance of the protection of bluefin tuna and its protection plan, led me to vote in favour. i would like to stress that the amendment proposed by the socialists and democrats, which i also voted in favour of, stresses the importance of combating monopolies in fisheries. although the internal allocation of fishing quotas is a prerogative of the states, it is also the responsibility of the european union to make efforts to favour small-scale fisheries, such as those in regions such as the azores and madeira. if we continue to give aid to the large enterprises, we will strangle the pole-and-line fisheries, such as those in the outermost regions of the atlantic. i repeat the need to respect scientific recommendations and to use the precautionary principle without sparing. in the tuna fishery, too many fish aggregating devices are still being used without a serious environmental impact study.
‒ bluefin tuna stocks have been showing a positive trend since 2008. in 2014, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas decided to increase the tac by 20% for the following three years (2015 to 2017). we, for our part, support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale, more sustainable fishing, to the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers. it is important to recognize the role of the artisanal frames used in the south of portugal, in the algarve, and their potential and selectivity, and it is also important that the island fishermen who use the art of the pole and hop, who today see the bluefin tuna pass without being able to fish, see their right to fish this species recognized.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009, as i consider that the european commission proposal correctly transposes the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan which provided for a gradual reduction in the level of total allowable catches between 2007 and 2011. this proposal aims to integrate into a single regulation all the measures adopted between 2012 and 2014 by iccat, based on the proven increase in bluefin tuna since 2008, which was reflected in the gradual increase of the total allowable catch at international level. however, it is important that the quota system for bluefin tuna be revised under the new proposal and that the iccat recommendations be transposed into community law and applied uniformly throughout the eu, ensuring a level playing field for all operators involved in bluefin tuna fishing, in particular for small-scale fishermen.
‒ we generally follow the rapporteur's positions. we also support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale fishing, which is more sustainable, for the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers, and we therefore voted in favour of the amendment. portugal does not currently have an extractive fishery for bluefin tuna. in the azores, only by-catches of other tuna shall be authorised. the portuguese annual quota for atum rabilho, 332 tonnes in 2016, is almost fully exhausted by the existing algarve stockpiles. this situation was to be changed, taking account of the more favourable context for the conservation of the species, by increasing the national quota and by granting azorean fishermen, who fish by jumping and using rods, the right to exploit this resource, which is now more abundant in the waters of the archipelago.
‒ competition policy has always been an instrument for a healthy economy, with benefits for consumers, and not an instrument in itself. however, as the report points out, competition policy must be seen as a cross-cutting instrument with social impacts, in the consolidation of the internal market, in the creation of a digital single market or in the soundness of the banking system. the 2014 annual report also assesses competition policy in the light of the commitments made by president juncker and commissioner vestager. the report points out that, in the first year, the commission acted in all the areas it had promised. in particular, in the digital field, as regards the abusive practices of large multinationals, or at the level of state aid at the expense of taxpayers. however, the commission's performance has not been without faults and there is ample room for improvement. i would stress the transparency of the procedures and the need to genuinely involve parliament in the development of regulatory instruments which, in some cases, are genuine legislative measures and therefore go beyond the implementing powers of the european commission.
‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for binding rules on competition in the internal market, based on an open economy with free competition, prohibiting agreements and concerted practices between undertakings which affect trade between member states and give rise to the abuse of a dominant position. state aid to certain undertakings or products distorting competition in the internal market is generally prohibited, with a few exceptions, but may be authorised by the commission under certain conditions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the billions of euro in fines imposed as a result of price-fixing agreements should in future be effectively complemented by sanctions on company directors and managers to prevent this type of behaviour more effectively.
‒ eu competition policy does not prevent the concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a few. on the contrary, this is the dynamic of the whole process of integration, given its capitalist nature. subjecting most public services and strategic sectors of the economy to the eu's competition policy and its single market has served the objectives of the large private economic groups who want to appropriate these services and sectors, subordinating them to the logic of the relentless search for maximum profit and minimum cost. under the false pretext of unfair competition or distortions of competition, this policy has resulted in legislation aimed at preventing public and democratic control of strategic sectors of the economy and the promotion of universal, free and quality public services. we support the call to stop social dumping, but the whole of eu policy is against it. the deepening of the single market and the elimination of so-called market restrictions serve the objectives of monopolistic concentration and deepen the divisions within the eu. we call for every effort to be made to cooperate among the member states and for a genuine commitment to combat tax havens and tax evasion and avoidance.
‒ competition regulation is essential for the smooth functioning of markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the annual report on eu competition policy is a key tool for analysing the state and evolution of a policy central to the definition of well-functioning markets and economic prosperity.
‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides, in articles 101 to 109, for binding rules on competition in the common internal market, based on an open economy with free competition. i am voting in favour of this report, arguing that there should be free competition between companies and that the member states should only be in the role of regulators and monitor whether there is a dominant position. the european union must also give stronger support to all those entrepreneurs who want to start new businesses, especially those associated with the digital economy, because they have ample opportunities for job creation and wealth creation. finally, it is extremely important that social aid for the transport of residents of peripheral regions has been taken into account in the general block exemption regulation (gber), which now recognises the problem of connectivity. connectivity of peripheral island regions is also essential to maintain and develop acceptable levels of economic and social initiative through the maintenance of essential business links.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's report, which stresses the importance of putting an end to social dumping. eu competition policy, with different impacts in different member states, is a cornerstone of europe's social market economy and a crucial tool for ensuring the smooth functioning of the union's internal market. this vote in favour is nothing more than a way of benefiting workers and entrepreneurs by promoting innovation and increasing consumer prosperity and, consequently, the living standards of all eu citizens. i also want to vote in favour of social cohesion and sustainable development based on price stability and balanced economic growth.
‒ the european parliament participates in competition law only through the consultation procedure. its influence is small compared with that of the commission and the council. the report argues that the billions of euro in fines imposed as a result of price-fixing agreements should be effectively complemented by sanctions on company directors and managers to prevent such behaviour. we hope that the eu's competition policy will cement and develop the market economy in europe and not evolve into a policy of sectoral and national exceptions and uncontrollable exemptions. an effective and credible competition policy must take into account the strategic interests of the european economy, such as: the capacity to innovate; investment; competitiveness and sustainability; the special conditions of competition for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises and the promotion of high social and environmental standards. it is also important that the commission tackles social dumping and that the social impact of competition policies in the most remote or isolated regions is taken into account.
‒ this report shows that the commission, together with the competition authority, is now decisive in ensuring that competition prevails in the internal market. i therefore support the proposal in the report to extend the application of financial penalties to company directors and managers when we are dealing with price fixing agreements, in order to prevent this type of behaviour more effectively. in this way, and with a view to consolidating and developing the key role of eu competition policy at international level, it is hoped that market economy and competition will henceforth prevail in europe, so that we avoid a policy of sectoral and national exceptions or uncontrollable exemptions. i am in favour of the report, because i agree with the proposals in its entirety.
‒ the eu's competition policy is far from being an instrument for safeguarding european democracy. it does not prevent the excessive concentration of economic and financial power which continues to be in the hands of a few. the subjection of public services and strategic sectors of the economy to the eu's competition policy and its single market has made life easier for large private economic groups who want to appropriate these services and sectors, subordinating them to the logic of the incessant search for maximum profit and minimum cost, which obviously has a negative impact on their users and consumers, but also on the workers of these organisations. the commission has always been able to use the false pretext of unfair competition or the distortions of competition created by this policy to produce directives and regulations whose sole purpose is to prevent public control of strategic sectors of the economy and the promotion of universal, free and quality public services. we therefore reject any call to the european commission to complete the single market in areas where it is supposedly fragmented and incomplete, because we believe that the deepening of the single market will further dismantle the instruments of sovereign regulation of economies, fuelling the domination of the large economic and financial groups.
‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy, as i consider it to be a cornerstone of europe's social market economy and an essential instrument for ensuring the proper functioning of the union's internal market. in addition, in the absence of co-decision powers, the european parliament's resolution on the european commission's annual report on competition policy constitutes one of the most important tests of its oversight in the field of european policy. i therefore believe that the european parliament must continue to strive to make its views prevail on certain aspects of eu competition policy, especially as regards its integration into the co-decision process on these matters. eu competition policy should therefore encourage the existence of conditions for fair competition for all businesses in order to complete the internal market, especially with regard to the fight against tax evasion and illegal corporate tax practices, while maintaining a high level of social welfare and protection of working conditions.
‒ always under the false pretext of unfair competition or the distortions of competition of this policy, directives and regulations have been issued whose sole purpose is to prevent public control of strategic sectors of the economy and the promotion of universal, free and quality public services. we support the call to stop social dumping, but we argue that being more competitive cannot in any way have a negative social impact, regardless of the degree of isolation of the regions. we reject any call to the european commission to complete the single market in areas where it is still fragmented and incomplete and to eliminate the so-called market restrictions, because we believe that the deepening of the single market has accentuated the dismantling of the instruments of sovereign regulation of economies and that it contributes to the escalation of tax evasion and profit shifting at the level of the member states. we call for every effort to be made to cooperate among the member states and for a genuine commitment to combat tax havens, tax avoidance and evasion. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on a set of values, shared by all the member states, which derive precisely from the values that make up each of these countries. those include human dignity, freedom of religion, gender equality or non-discrimination on the basis of colour. at a time when the world is facing an unprecedented number of displaced people and the union in particular is facing the greatest migratory pressure since the second world war, intercultural dialogue is of particular importance. cultural diversity and education are essential to the promotion of the values that define the community in which we live. this report rightly points to this importance and points out some ways forward, such as close cooperation with the united nations and humanitarian aid to ensure that young people in refugee camps have access to school. i therefore support this report.
‒ the european union is at a particular historical moment in which notions of identity and belonging are being challenged, reconfigured and defended in a very emotional way by a multiplicity of voices and divergent political perspectives. this report is an attempt to make progress based on the common agreement among ministers of education that combined efforts are needed to prevent and address marginalization, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. addressing the challenges addressed in this report requires that dialogue and cultural diversity be mainstreamed in a cross-cutting way across all policy areas, such as children and youth policies, education, mobility, employment and social affairs, security and home affairs, as well as women's rights, gender equality and regional development.
‒ there are some positive aspects to this report, but in general it adopts a perspective that fails to go to the root of the problems that lead to extremism, xenophobia and racism, whitewashing the role of the eu, governments and their policies in promoting inequalities, in the lack of access to public services and in the attack on fundamental rights, in the production of stigmas, in promoting values contrary to those they proclaim, in promoting interference and war instead of peace. it mixes concepts and skills to be acquired through education and training that will allegedly contribute to the promotion of the eu's core values. some of the wording of the report is revealing of the content and meaning of these values (education for 'leadership', 'entrepreneurship'). the report aims to combat intolerance, racism, radicalisation and marginalisation by promoting intercultural dialogue. a perspective on values education is advocated which understands intercultural dialogue as a "two-way process where both parties benefit by being able to put themselves in the other's shoes", rather than adopting a fear approach. these are positive aspects that coexist in the report with the negative aspects already mentioned.
‒ it is essential to invest in the development of a generation of young people with ambition, motivation and commitment, through the development of social and civic skills, critical thinking skills, which are essential for promoting economic development and the eu's core values. i voted in favour.
‒ europe is facing a historic moment of reconfiguration of the concepts of identity and belonging. radicalisation and extremism are movements that require thinking and action from a holistic perspective. dialogue and cultural diversity must therefore be integrated in a transversal way into all public policies. pluralist, non-discriminatory, tolerant and just societies, based on solidarity and equality between men and women, are the basic principles of the european project and of modern societies. i believe that intercultural dialogue should be included in the union's external relations as a soft power in order to promote the protection of cultural diversity. i also believe in the importance of mobility and exchanges to promote contact between cultures. education, volunteering, sport and civil society involvement are also powerful tools for social cohesion. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that citizenship is an instrument against intolerance, marginalisation, racism and radicalisation.
‒ the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 calls on member states to act to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in the fields of education and learning. eu education ministers were clear in their joint affirmation of the value of pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and just societies, in which solidarity and equality between men and women are fully integrated, with a view to realising the eu's core values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. indeed, combined efforts are needed to prevent and address marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. based on the agreement between the ministers of education, this report identifies the opportunities and challenges in this area and makes concrete recommendations for action at all levels of governance, including increasing the use of culture in the eu's external action and development agenda and recognising its role in peacebuilding, conflict resolution and crisis prevention.
‒ this report refers to the paris declaration of 17 march 2015, which calls on member states to act to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in the fields of education and learning. i agree that this is fundamental to properly addressing today's concerns, and it has also helped to lay the foundations for promoting strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future. i support the need to formulate education policies that address the value of pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and just societies in which solidarity and equality between women and men are guaranteed. i voted in favour of this report because it is based on a common agreement between the ministers of education, which defines the need to establish combined efforts in preventing and addressing marginalization, tolerance, racism, radicalisation and in preserving a framework of equal opportunities for all. in this respect, i welcome the fact that this report recognises that intercultural learning plays a key role in sustainable progress in the field of active citizenship.
‒ cultural dialogue and diversity should be mainstreamed in a cross-cutting way in all policy areas, such as child and youth policies, education, mobility, employment and social affairs, security and home affairs, in addition to women's rights, gender equality and regional development. there is a need for stronger and more coherent cooperation between the different policy structures, not only at eu level but also at national and local level. the report makes a particular call for intercultural dialogue to be included in the eu's external relations, particularly in its development agenda. i believe that culture plays a fundamental role in promoting democratization, peace-building and respect for human rights. the development of a dynamic role for culture on the international stage as a 'power of influence', including the promotion and protection of cultural diversity, can benefit the eu and its member states in their relations with the rest of the world.
‒ first of all, i would like to stress the relevance of this own-initiative report and my strong support for it, as i consider the role of education in promoting the eu's fundamental values to be absolutely central. we are increasingly witnessing a growing scepticism about a sense of european identity and belonging, as well as a growing escalation of extremism and radicalisation, particularly in certain economic and social fringes of our communities. to this extent, intercultural dialogue, mutual understanding and education for plurality and diversity are instruments in the service of a culture of peace, conflict resolution and crisis prevention. i think that this report makes a fairly accurate diagnosis of the present situation and proposes viable and credible measures to reverse this trend, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the measures proposed in this report. they embody an integrated and long-term european intervention strategy. it is the result of the will to act, of the need to act now so that in the future such events as we have seen will not happen again. that is why the commitment to an approach that values diversity and intercultural dialogue is a path that makes sense at all times, and even more so at a time like this. the intensification of formal and informal education, as the cornerstone of the socio-cultural development of a europe which wants a wider space of tolerance and respect for difference, is a necessary and consistent response. the report presented points to a path which, although not without obstacles and difficulties, is capable of contributing to the future of europe, since it advocates the defence of the common values which hold our societies together, such as freedom, justice, solidarity, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, tolerance and solidarity.
‒ the report recognises that intercultural dialogue is a tool for inclusive democratic participation and citizen empowerment, in particular in relation to common goods and public spaces. considers that, in accordance with article 167 (4) tfeu, cultural diversity and dialogue should be integrated in a transversal way in all policy areas of the european union. however, it is not by whitewashing the role of the eu and the governments of some member states and their policies in promoting inequalities, lack of access to public services and fundamental rights, and the production of stigmas that multiculturalism and tolerance are promoted. how can the eu be called the agent of world peace when it is one of the causes of the many wars that are going on at the moment? intercultural dialogue makes perfect sense, but only if it is consistent and properly integrated into inclusive social policies that promote social justice, peace and solidarity between peoples and cultures, the opposite of what europe does, whether with refugees or with nation states seeking their own paths of development.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's core values, as i considered that the report constitutes an attempt to make progress based on combined efforts at european level to prevent and address marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equality and opportunity for all european citizens. in this context, i believe that the report identifies quite clearly both the opportunities and challenges of cultural diversity in europe and makes concrete recommendations for action at all levels of governance, recognising the unique role that culture and education can play in peacebuilding, conflict resolution and crisis prevention. i therefore believe it is essential that intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education become a strong commitment of the eu, so that european citizens are given access to citizenship education and the opportunity to acquire civic, social and intercultural skills that help them develop ethical and civic values, while respecting existing european diversity and combating social problems of exclusion within their societies.
‒ this report adds, to some positive aspects, a perspective that does not go to the real source of the problems that lead to extremism, xenophobia and racism. the report highlights the role of the eu and the governments of some member states and their policies in promoting inequalities, lack of access to public services and social and economic rights, and the production of stigmas, and 'advocates that the eu, as a global peace promoter, should promote intercultural dialogue'. the report does not speak of concrete measures of social inclusion but always of integration through intercultural dialogue, and calls for an updated definition of this concept, which is not well understood how it will be measured. while recognising that intercultural dialogue is a tool for inclusive democratic participation, we cannot fail to stress that it is not in the realm of concrete inclusion measures, but abstract ones. on the other hand, the eu itself, by evoking the supposed fundamental values of the eu in contrast to others, in particular when it enters countries or rejects entry of those who do not have citizenship of eu countries, in practice denies this dialogue. we abstained.
in the light of the recent developments in the eu, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the regulation of financial services in the eu. i agree with the rapporteur's criticism that the impact of individual legislative measures and their interactions has not been sufficiently analysed, nor has the cumulative impact of legislation in general been fully assessed. i hope that the new initiatives of the commission, such as the investment package and the capital markets union, will build on the existing regulation on financial services, which works effectively and efficiently. i would stress the rapporteur's concern that the financial services legislation respects the principle of proportionality and that more attention is paid to smes and to sme financing. the implementation of financial services legislation should be less complex, more understandable and better adapted to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. it is essential that financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities of policy-makers and that greater importance is given to the application of a risk-based approach.
‒ the financial and sovereign debt crisis that emerged in 2007/2008 called for global action by european legislators and international standardisation bodies. this own-initiative report is a first step in taking stock of the legislative work, addressing gaps in financial services legislation and expressing concerns that in particular the impact of individual legislative measures and their interactions have not been sufficiently analysed, nor has the cumulative impact of the legislation in general been fully assessed. this legislation needs to be fully transposed and enforced in the member states. i think it is important that financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities of the legislators. i would stress that the quality of regulation in the financial services sector also depends on coordination, timing and transparency in the legislative process.
‒ mainstream economic theory points to the scarcity (or reduced enforcement) of financial regulation and supervision, lack of transparency and reporting as the main, and virtually the only, explanation for the financial crisis of 2007/08. for this reason, we have seen a high production of legislation in the eu in the area of regulation and supervision, which, its advocates claim, will prevent the emergence of new financial crises. it was a hoax. the most important changes are still to come: the separation of commercial and investment banking and the public control of banking. only such measures can protect the workers and peoples of the member states from paying for new 'adventures' of high finance. the european commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by smes. its main objective, however, is to increase profits in the financial sector. its promoters say that improvements in legislation will prevent a crisis like the one in 2007/2008. another con. we voted against it.
‒ the own-initiative report is an important step in analysing and taking stock of the legislative work to consolidate economic and monetary union. i am aware that the complexity of regulation is also a reflection of the complexity of financial markets, and i would stress the need for further clarification and simplification of the legal acquis in this area. i have voted in favour of the priorities set out.
‒ in the face of the financial crisis that has plagued the european union since 2007, numerous legislative initiatives have been created, in relation to eu financial services, to restore financial stability, strengthen consumer protection and put into practice the lessons learned from the crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that this legislation needs to be fully transposed and enforced in the member states. i also believe that it is important that financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities of policy-makers and that greater importance should be given to the application of a risk-based approach. i believe that in order to increase market stability, enable non-bank financing, invest in the real economy and provide sustainable long-term growth, the european union must absorb the lessons learned during the crisis. i believe that financial stability, consumer protection, with consistent and proportionate regulation, with information and with easy access, must remain the priority of legislators. creating an investment-friendly environment, broadening access to finance and unlocking investment is key to our goal of sustainable economic growth.
‒ in the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, numerous legislative initiatives have been launched on eu financial services with a view to restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and implementing the lessons learned from the crisis. the truth is, however, that to date no full assessment has ever been made of the effects of these individual legislative measures, their interactions and their cumulative impact. this own-initiative report is a first step in taking stock of this intensive legislative work. in this regard, it requests the commission services to carry out, by the end of 2016, a first assessment and report on the cumulative impact of eu financial services regulation, in order to analyse its effects, effectiveness, efficiency and adequacy, identify any shortcomings and gaps, and address the essential role and responsibilities of the esas and the ssm in this context. such an evaluation will now be periodic and the commission services, in collaboration with the esas, the ssm and the esrb, will carry out this analysis and report to parliament every five years. i voted in favour.
‒ the present own-initiative report, as a tool for the assessment of legislative work, aims to address gaps in financial services legislation and to raise concerns, such as the fact that individual legislative measures have not been sufficiently analysed, as well as the insufficient assessment of the cumulative impact of legislation in general. firstly, it welcomes the present report because it considers the relevance of the recommendations to the commission, particularly with regard to building initiatives on the basis of existing financial services regulation, as well as the importance of regular evaluation of financial services frameworks. secondly, because we agree that the relevance of the quality of regulation in the financial services sector depends on coordination, timing and transparency in the legislative process. i therefore believe that this report can help to improve this process.
‒ the financial crisis that emerged in 2007/8 called for global action by european legislators and international standardisation bodies. since then, numerous legislative initiatives have been launched in the eu financial services area to restore financial stability, strengthen consumer protection and put into practice the lessons learned from the crisis. this report is a first step in taking stock of this legislative work, addressing gaps in financial services legislation and expressing concerns that have emerged. i believe that a comprehensive impact assessment of the financial services framework is needed and that such an assessment should be carried out regularly. this task should be carried out by the commission services and should take advantage of their liaison with the supervisory agencies. i think it is important that financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities of policy-makers and that greater importance should be given to the application of a risk-based approach.
‒ it is relatively common ground that the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and its negative effects were caused, inter alia, by the lack of adequate and comprehensive financial services regulation. the eu has therefore embarked on a wide-ranging reform programme for the union's financial sector, with the firm aim of strengthening financial regulation and supervision, ensuring less permeability to crisis scenarios and safeguarding investors and taxpayers as much as possible. i therefore share the views expressed by the rapporteur on the need for coherent and effective regulation of eu financial services, which serves the interests of companies, customers and investors alike, and the need to move towards a capital markets union, which would put an end to the current fragmentation and allow for the strengthening of capital markets in the eu as a complement to bank-based financing. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ if we blame the 2007 crisis on a supposed lack of regulation, we are misdiagnosing it. we are at the same time creating an illusion, implying that the financial system can be disciplined. we are creating the illusion that it is possible to align the interests of banks and investment funds with the interests of the people and the workers. the single supervisory mechanism, like the single resolution mechanism, does not work and does not solve the problems of the financial system, as we have seen recently in portugal, where information has been systematically concealed and manipulated with the consent of the supervisory agents. the problem of the big financial institutions, so-called too big to fail, cannot be solved by mere palliatives which are only intended to try to give the impression that something is being done while everything is the same. the problem is solved by the separation of banking and public control of the financial system and time will soon take care to prove us right.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the balance sheet and challenges of eu regulation in financial services, as i consider that the capital market in the union remains fragmented and that the capital markets union (cmu) can provide a valuable framework to safeguard equitable access to finance for smes in the eu and promote innovative platforms for financing in the market, without this being deregulation of the market. the financial crisis of 2007 and its negative impact were caused, inter alia, by the failure to implement financial services regulation appropriate to increasingly complex markets. as a result, an ambitious programme of reforms in the eu's financial sector has been launched in recent years to strengthen financial regulation and supervision, restore financial stability and make the financial system more resilient to shocks. in this sense, i think the report clearly identifies that the creation of the emu does not mean deregulation but rather an improvement in the channelling of funds into the real economy, underlining the importance of the european parliament in completing the banking union and highlighting the need for the creation of the european credit rating agency and a high level of investor protection in the market.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, the situation is caricatured. at the same time as we see increased regulation, the capital markets union is being taken out of the picture. a union which claims to want to facilitate access for smes to the capital markets as a way of overcoming the constraints faced by them in the commercial banking sector, but whose sole objective is to increase profits in the financial sector. its promoters claim that improvements in legislation will prevent a crisis like the one in 2007-2008, but we are here to tell you that history has proved us right. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the implementation of a gender quota system for entrepreneurship financing instruments, not because i am against women's participation in the labour market, but, quite the contrary, because i believe that the quota system is discriminatory towards women. this system contributes to the maintenance of a form of differentiated treatment between the sexes and does not allow women to assert themselves through meritocracy. to assume a quota system is to accept that women are not on the same level as men, an assumption with which i completely and completely disagree.
‒ although entrepreneurship has been a political priority since the start of the lisbon treaty, the european union is still lagging behind in this area, with an entrepreneurship rate of 12% in 2009 among the eu-27 countries, compared to rates of 27% and 21% in china and the us respectively. in this context, female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention, as equality in terms of economic independence remains uncertain in the european union and the employment rate for women, which stood at 59,6% in 2014 at eu-28 level, is neither in line with the europe 2020 employment target of 75% nor with the male employment rate of 70,1%. when women set up businesses, they are more likely to do so in sectors related to human health, social action or education, while male entrepreneurs are more present in areas of the construction, transport and ict sectors. we must encourage entrepreneurship from primary school and tackle the obstacles that stand in its way.
‒ the own-initiative report states that the rate of female entrepreneurship is very low in many member states and advocates concrete strategies to exploit the full potential of female entrepreneurship. these include awareness campaigns in banks and other financial institutions to ensure equal treatment of men and women in access to credit, gender quotas in the allocation of eu funds, the promotion of an entrepreneurship culture in education and training curricula. the report considers that women's entrepreneurship plays a key role in the fight for gender rights and equality. shot, obviously. there are positive aspects to combating gender stereotypes or defending some public services and a better work-life balance. a critical reference to the withdrawal of the maternity directive is missing. while women entrepreneurs face numerous obstacles, there is a disproportionate weight given to some of the aspects addressed in this report in relation to their contribution to the fight for gender equality. the role of the public sector and the negative effects of austerity policies are completely absent from the report. we abstained.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of women's rights, the commission has proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of women against discrimination. the reconciliation of private and professional life should be supported through concrete policies.
‒ entrepreneurship is a strong promoter of employment, economic growth, innovation, social development and poverty reduction in general. however, in 2012, women represented only 31% of entrepreneurs (10.3 million) in the eu-28 and only 34.4% of self-employed. i am voting in favour of this report which ensures that the gender dimension is fully integrated into all future policies in the field of entrepreneurship, and that the need for women to reconcile their professional and personal lives, especially when they are out of the statutory maternity period, is safeguarded. i believe that the commission and the member states should promote greater visibility of entrepreneurship funding by, among other measures, drawing up maps of microfinance support under the european microfinance instrument 'progress' and developing training plans to ensure that women have high levels of knowledge in predominantly male-dominated areas such as construction or technology.
‒ although entrepreneurship has been identified as a political priority since the start of the lisbon treaty, the truth is that the european union is still somewhat behind in this area. entrepreneurship is fundamental to employment, economic growth, innovation, development and poverty reduction in general. indeed, it is widely recognised that in order to restore growth and create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete policy initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship. in this context, female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention, as equality in terms of economic independence remains uncertain in the european union and the employment rate for women, which stood at 59,6% in 2014 at eu-28 level, is neither in line with the europe 2020 employment target of 75% nor with the male employment rate of 70,1%. this report deals with the issue of female entrepreneurship, identifying the obstacles to it and proposing ways of overcoming them. i voted in favour.
‒ i welcome the presentation of this report which aims to underpin employment, economic growth and innovation through women's entrepreneurship. the work-life balance that entrepreneurship can offer women is the first obstacle to success. in addition, women entrepreneurs can only reconcile their professional and family life if there are adequate childcare facilities and if the parents are actively involved in the running of the household. i voted in favour of this report because it encourages the member states to present concrete strategies and to identify the obstacles to be overcome. the rate of female entrepreneurship lags behind in all member states and the differences between men and women in entrepreneurial careers are still marked. in 2012, of all eu-28 citizens who were self-employed, only 31% were women.
‒ differences between men and women are still noticeable in entrepreneurial careers. in 2012, of all eu-28 citizens who were self-employed, only 31% were women. when women set up businesses, they are more likely to do so in sectors related to human health, social action or education, while male entrepreneurs are more present in areas of the construction, transport and ict sectors. it's no wonder that the net income of female entrepreneurs was 6% lower than that of men in 2012. in addition, women's enterprises remain smaller, with only 23% of female entrepreneurs being employers, compared with 30% of men. the work-life balance that entrepreneurship can offer women represents a first obstacle to their success, as it can lead them into a vicious circle where they create fewer opportunities to gain management experience to run their businesses, consolidate their credit history and gain the trust of investors. we're still working to reverse this.
‒ the european union, with the aim of reviving economic growth and creating new jobs, has adopted concrete policy initiatives to develop european entrepreneurship in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. women's entrepreneurship, for its part, deserves special attention, as equal pay remains uncertain in the european union. this report focuses on the financial needs of women entrepreneurs in order to reduce the indirect discrimination that many of them still face today in their entrepreneurial endeavours. since it is important to know these realities - so often hidden or forgotten - so that we can achieve a europe of work, a europe that is more socially balanced, fairer and more developed, i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ gender equality is a subject which i consider particularly important and, as a matter of principle, all initiatives aimed at reducing the gap in opportunities between men and women will have my support. in this case, the adopted owninitiative report, among many other measures, calls on the member states to recognise the value of entrepreneurship in the work-life balance of men and women and to remove the barriers that make it difficult or even impossible for women to become entrepreneurs. overall, this report calls for knowledge-based action, emphasising the importance of gender-disaggregated data collection to identify gaps and opportunities. for a number of reasons which are set out in the report, but which include those mentioned above, i have decided to vote in favour of this initiative.
‒ as a consequence of liberal policies, the painful reality is that unemployment, poverty and inequality have female faces. in all these indicators, women consistently rank ahead of men. to try to combat this reality with this new and modern panacea of entrepreneurship is totally illusory, to try to cure the disease with the agent responsible for the same disease. the problems, gender discrimination in employment, are being tackled with progressive legislation that promotes stable, high-quality, well-paid jobs. we cannot promote the precariousness that generates female unemployment and then come here defending female entrepreneurship. if we want gender equality we must create the conditions for all women to be full citizens. this implies job security, combating all practices of gender discrimination and quality public services that can ensure health and education for all children. unfortunately, this is not the direction of eu policy at present, but it will be one day with the struggle of women and all workers.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on external factors hampering european women's entrepreneurship because i believe that entrepreneurship is fundamental to employment, economic growth, r&d and poverty reduction in general, and that women's entrepreneurship, by lagging behind in all member states, holds untapped potential for growth and prosperity for european societies. moreover, female entrepreneurship deserves special attention, as equality in terms of economic independence remains uncertain in the eu and the employment rate of women is not in line with either the 75% employment target of the europe 2020 strategy or the male employment rate. in this sense, i think the report clearly shows how the obstacles to female entrepreneurship - such as the predominance of women in unemployment, the persistent gender gap in entrepreneurial activity and the under-representation of women in management activities - are interlinked and difficult to overcome, and that this should be clearly differentiated from sham self-employment and seen as a powerful source of economic independence that enables women to be more integrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report which indicates that the rate of female entrepreneurship is very low in many member states. in essence, this report focuses on the idea that the private sector and feminist entrepreneurship are the panacea for solving women's economic problems and difficult living conditions. this is exemplified by the encouragement of the promotion of an entrepreneurship culture in education and training curricula. the report calls on the states and the commission to develop strategies to exploit the full potential of women as entrepreneurs and advocates that awareness campaigns are needed in banks and other financial institutions to ensure equal treatment of men and women in obtaining credit, making the case for debt and business risk which, in our view, is negative. we cannot agree to the introduction of gender quotas in the allocation of eu funds either, which would limit access to these funds. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ despite the measures that have been taken both at eu and member state level, youth unemployment is still one of the current problems facing europe, with an estimated five million young people out of work. entry into the labour market and retention in employment are determined by two dimensions of skills: the core skills (capacity to adapt, ability to learn to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, communication skills) and specific skills related to particular jobs or jobs. i support the report, which sets out a set of policies to be undertaken in the field of education, training to reduce youth unemployment, and the establishment of partnerships with employers' organisations and local and regional bodies.
in writing. ‒ the high level of youth unemployment is currently one of the eu's most pressing problems, with almost five million young people out of work. at the same time, there are about two million unfilled jobs in the eu every day. in discussing this issue, the following factors need to be taken into account: globalisation, demographic change, the economic crisis, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work. the creation of businesses and selfemployment also provide an opportunity to participate in the labour market. market entry and job retention are determined by two dimensions of skills: core skills (capacity to adapt, ability to learn to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, communication skills) and specific skills related to particular jobs or jobs. due to differences in the labour markets of the member states, it is also necessary to determine which level of governance has the most effective tools to identify and describe skills needs.
in writing. the report reflects on the unemployment figures that have been plaguing the european union, focusing mainly on youth unemployment. the unemployment rate in the eu in 2014 was on average 9.9% (in portugal it was around 20%), youth unemployment was 21.4% and in the most affected countries, such as portugal, it was above 30%. the report proposes measures to combat youth unemployment. there are positive aspects, such as the defence of the increase in qualifications, criticism of the increase in the costs of attending the various levels of education, the valorisation of local economies and traditional know-how, the affirmation of a holistic education (against the tendency to specialise), the reference to the exploitation of trainees, the defence of the fight against some forms of discrimination. however, there are also negative aspects, most notably the advocacy of adapting curricula, programmes and education/training provision to the needs of the 'labour market'; the overvaluation of 'entrepreneurship', with the advocacy of its inclusion in school curricula and the affirmation of mobility as a response to the problems of youth unemployment. the solution to youth unemployment is to break with the policies that have been imposed on us and break with those who impose them. the present and future of young people depend on it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. it is very worrying to know that youth unemployment in the eu reaches almost 5 million young people. young people have been particularly affected by the crisis. on the other hand, there are two million unfilled jobs. this situation seriously threatens the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. young people are an important asset to the european economy, so it is urgent that all measures be taken to reverse this scenario.
‒ the development of individual skills and the dissemination of knowledge and skills are one of the main elements of employment policies, allowing to generate sustainable growth, promote competitiveness and combat unemployment. i am voting in favour of this report, and i support the position that calls for greater cooperation between higher education institutions and the labour market, greater commitment to entrepreneurship and new opportunities for young people. it is important to note that there are approximately 22 million unemployed in europe, including 7 million young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets), so it is essential to develop new educational skills that are associated with labour market needs, especially at the technological level where there are 2 million vacancies in the european union. finally, i would like to stress that the youth guarantee programme has produced very satisfactory results. however, i believe that youth employment policies should be more focused on creating real job opportunities and not on social programmes which do not solve this scourge that thousands of unemployed young people live with every day.
‒ the report considers that the alarming level of youth unemployment is one of the eu's most serious problems and a serious threat to social cohesion and economic development. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the debate on youth unemployment should be based on the following factors: globalisation, demographic change, the economic crisis, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work. i also support the creation of businesses and self-employment as opportunities in the labour market. i also believe that a holistic approach that transcends the polarisation of sectoral policies is essential for skills development as a multidimensional process. i also agree that education systems need to become more flexible so that knowledge and skills can be completed and developed at all stages of the working life. finally, i welcome the fact that this report highlights the need to link higher education institutions and the business sector and the relevance of identifying and describing the needs in terms of skills in the member states, given that there are differences between the various labour markets.
in writing. ‒ there are currently 4.5 million unemployed young people aged 15-24 in the european union and more than 7 million young europeans in the same age group are not working, studying or training. the union-wide unemployment rate stood at 9,9% at the end of 2014 and the youth unemployment rate was more than double that at 21,4%. this situation seriously threatens the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. the solution will require a new approach to factors such as globalisation, demographic change, the economic crisis, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work. an approach that puts people back at the centre of the economy, not the other way around.
in writing. ‒ the scourge of youth unemployment is a sad reality today - unfortunately unavoidable in our european union - and it is already affecting some 5 million young europeans. however, there are still 2 million jobs that remain unfilled. the report also calls for the introduction of a european system of social security for the unemployed, which would be a new way of ensuring that the unemployed are not discriminated against. i would like to stress the positive aspects of promoting closer links between educational institutions and the labour market (in particular by meeting the needs of the latter) and the correct and effective channelling of european funds by the member states to encourage young entrepreneurship and thus the creation of their own jobs. these are commendable initiatives which have earned my vote in favour of this matter.
‒ this own-initiative report once again highlights an important component of one of the european union's greatest wounds, youth unemployment. it highlights the fact that there are 24 million unemployed in europe, including 7.5 million young people who are not in work, education or training. in other words, 5% of the european population is made up of young unemployed people. this problem is particularly acute in the outermost regions, including the azores and madeira. the report in question, which i voted in favour of, recognises the efforts of the european commission and the member states and calls for further action, specifically referring to the need for effective support for socially responsible, green and sustainable business projects. the report is extensive and contains interesting measures and i am pleased that they have been approved by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment rates of 30% or more are a mirror of an eu that promotes unemployment in order to better exploit those who work. the main victims of this exploitation are young people who suffer from precariousness and low wages. the policies and measures of the european union, particularly in recent years in the countries covered by the troika, have condemned young people to unemployment, precariousness and forced emigration. this is the reality. the policies of labour deregulation, low wages, the disempowerment of the state in employment policies, the commodification of education with its increasing costs of attendance and the prevalence of the acquisition of skills and market orientation to the detriment of the individual's integral training - all these contribute to the dramatic situation faced today by millions of young workers. the false solutions, such as entrepreneurship, this new and modern fallacy of neoliberalism, or so-called mobility, are a real deception through which it is intended to cure the disease with the germ that causes the same disease. the solution is to break with these policies and break with those who impose them. the present and future of young people depend on it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment because i consider that the high level of youth unemployment is currently one of the most urgent problems in the european union, with almost five million young people out of work, a situation which seriously threatens the union's social cohesion and economic development. considering that the lack of skills relevant to the jobs available and the inadequacy of education and training are important factors causing unemployment among young people and that without the creation of quality, sustainable and efficient jobs in europe, the youth employment crisis cannot be solved, it is therefore of great relevance to strengthen european efforts in creating mechanisms to promote youth employment in europe. in this respect, i believe it is essential to create policies that better adapt existing qualifications to the needs of the labour market; that create quality jobs and that support education and training systems, which are regarded as fundamental rights. in essence, it is important to improve the long-term benefits of the opportunities offered to young people while promoting europe's economic growth.
in writing. the report reflects on the unemployment figures that have hit the european union in the context of the financial crisis, focusing mainly on youth unemployment, the unemployment rate in the eu was in 2014 at 9,9%, with youth unemployment at 21,4%. it therefore proposes a series of policy definitions in terms of competences to combat youth unemployment. the report has some positive concepts, focusing on increasing qualifications, criticising education policies aimed at increasing attendance costs, calling for a more efficient use of funding, the valorisation of local economies and traditional know-how as an employability option, the affirmation of a holistic education (against the tendency to specialise), the non-exploitation of trainees, equal opportunities for people from disadvantaged groups. however, there are some considerations that cloud the report, most notably the tendency to adapt curricula and programmes and the education/training offer to the needs of the labour market. on the other hand, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the inclusion of entrepreneurship in school curricula are also issues that deserve opposition. finally, the affirmation of mobility as a response to the problems of youth unemployment is a negative point in the report.
‒ the rapid evolution of the internet and communications has changed the way we communicate, do business and consume within the single market. despite the achievements in physical commerce, europeans often face obstacles in using online tools and services, are wary of their use and face barriers due to the fragmentation of legislation applicable to online commerce. i support the kallas/gebhardt report, which follows up on the digital single market strategy presented by the european commission, with the aim of creating a connected digital single market, creating new jobs, an environment where digital networks and services can thrive, with better online access to digital products and services and looking at digital as a growth engine. it is estimated that the digital single market could represent an annual increase of between eur 415 and eur 500 billion in the eu's gdp. i think that overall it is a good strategy, but it needs work, and the report voted on today is a valuable contribution to the achievement of the goals that the european commission has set itself for the near future, thus creating a connected digital single market with added value for european consumers.
‒ the commission has adopted a proposal for a communication entitled 'a digital strategy for europe', which includes 16 initiatives to be delivered by the end of 2016. innovation in the digital sector is constantly changing the way citizens communicate, share, consume and even behave, and therefore creates new opportunities for businesses and users alike. the increased use of digital technologies can further improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase employment opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products. it can also be beneficial for the modernisation and improvement of governance and administration in the eu and its member states. the digital single market strategy is divided into three parts: -access: better access for consumers and businesses to digital goods and services across europe; -environment: creating the right conditions and a level playing field for digital networks and innovative services to thrive; - the economy and society: maximising the growth potential of the digital economy it is important that the eu budget, national budgets and the legislative framework allow the implementation of this strategy.
‒ innovation in the digital sector is constantly changing the way citizens communicate, share, consume and even behave, generating new social and economic relations. digital technologies can improve citizens' access to information and culture, as well as provide them with a wider and more diverse choice of public and/or commercial products and services. despite the potential of digital technologies, the single market has been a tool for promoting inequalities between member states, degrading national production in portugal, making life particularly difficult for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot cope with european competition and the brutal inequality of circumstances in the face of multinational hegemons. we advocate the end of the geoblocking. however, this should safeguard the right of authors and performers to a decent remuneration for their productions. we argue that the storage and management of data, because of the growing importance of digital technologies not only in the economy but also in society, should be under the control of the state. the liberalization of markets is a matter of deep concern, even if it is presented under a social facade. the propaganda of promises of jobs, growth, cohesion is always and always contradicted by reality. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards the digital single market act'. innovation in the digital sector is a constant, changing the way citizens communicate, share and behave. this creates new opportunities for both businesses and users. greater use of digital technologies can help improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase employment opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products. eu policies and legislation in the digital single market should create new opportunities for users and businesses in a world of 500 million eu consumers. this requires the removal of barriers between member states and the facilitation of access by european companies, especially smes and start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a digital market where start-ups can grow and thrive in the european space rather than having to migrate to silicon valley. we must support european start-ups by making it easier to access venture capital funding, create a simplified tax system across the european union and focus on cutting red tape to make it easier to set up new businesses. i am also in favour of new technology companies in the area of the sharing economy which make a very positive contribution to economic growth, job creation and wealth creation throughout europe. however, i believe that this activity should be regulated at european level. there should be a common system of taxation and consumer safety should be ensured. we cannot claim to want an innovative europe and at the same time block start-ups and these new forms of business.
‒ this report responds to the 16 proposals put forward by the european commission in its communication of 6 may 2015 entitled 'a digital strategy for europe'. the communication sets out the digital single market strategy, which is broadly based on the assumption that innovation in the digital sector can contribute to the emergence of new opportunities for businesses and users. i voted in favour of this report because i support the involvement of the consumer protection cooperation network and the clarification of existing community competition law. i also welcome the reference in this report to the need to review the existing block exemption regulation in the area of internet sales and territorial restrictions, with the aim of making it more easily applicable by retailers and consumer organisations. i also voted in favour of the report because i think it is important to invest in the digitalisation of public administration, which will bring the control of decisions closer to the citizen, and will increase access to services and their transparency. i therefore support optimising the growth potential of the digital economy.
‒ only 1.7% of european companies make full use of advanced digital technologies and only 14% of smes use the internet as a sales channel. innovation in the digital sector is constantly changing the way citizens communicate, share, consume and even behave, and therefore creates new opportunities for businesses and users alike. the increased use of digital technologies can improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase employment opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products. it can also be beneficial for the modernisation and improvement of governance and administration in the eu and its member states. some of the issues addressed in this report relate to: the law on online sales; the stricter application of related secondary law; competition law on e-commerce; online public administration; the creation of appropriate and fair conditions of competition for digital networks and advanced innovative services.
‒ the technological revolution and digitisation that we have seen in recent times have led the european commission to put the digital single market on its list of priorities. the digital innovation and its consequent expansion into the most diverse areas of everyday life translate into the urgent need to regulate this market in a fair and sound way, allowing not only to optimise current and future challenges, but also to enhance the use of the opportunities it offers. in addition, the protection of the digital privacy of european citizens is a fundamental issue that cannot be ignored, and therefore the regulation of this market is necessary and urgent in order to ensure the security and trust of citizens in the digital single market in the processing of digital data. this resolution therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the interest in creating a digital single market. both for the opportunity to create new businesses, but essentially for the opportunity to generate new jobs, it seems to me that breaking down barriers between the countries of the european union and establishing common rules can greatly help digital commerce in the world's largest economic community. the european commission's previous strategy is based on three pillars: (1) increasing access for consumers and businesses to digital goods and services, (2) developing the conditions for networks and services to thrive, and (3) taking advantage of the growth of the digital economy. however, as the own-initiative report under vote points out, there is still a lot of room for improvement. among them i highlight the need to create a process so that international purchases resulting from online purchases can be affordable and fair. another point that this own-initiative report touches on, and which i would like to stress, is the need to protect workers from companies that dispatch orders purchased online. the own-initiative report that has been voted on is important and will be consequential in that it has my support.
‒ the digital market holds many potentials for society in general and for citizens in particular. however, as with any technological advance, it is policy that determines whether or not the benefits of the use and spread of these technologies are appropriated. the digital single market must therefore be placed not at the service of large multinational companies but rather at the service of a development strategy focused on improving the living conditions of the population and workers. it is pointless to talk about the digitisation of the economy if this phenomenon is not accompanied by improvements in the working conditions of companies, for example by a reduction in working time made possible by the use of these technologies. otherwise, it will be the same people as always who will benefit from technological progress, perpetuating the paradox of modernity in which technological progress is accompanied by longer working hours.
‒ i voted in favour of the report towards a digital single market act because i believe that aligning the european union with the digital revolution implies the creation of a single market. the priorities and lines of action defined by the commission and approved by parliament for the creation of a digital single market are a good contribution to the path that the union must continue to follow. this means, amongst others, giving more europeans access to digital services and resources, opening up new opportunities for investment, growth and employment, and new opportunities for people's retraining and for technological research and innovation. in a time of discouragement, it is important that there is a mobilizing and aggregating drive for the 28 member states' efforts to create a digital single market, based on a european digital identity capable of projecting the strength of 500 million european consumers in the design, regulation and competitive dynamics of digital markets. these common benchmarks for a digital union should include the values of inclusion, universality and neutrality of access; cultural diversity; prevention of monopolistic movements and encouragement of sme networks; protection of privacy and enhancement of the rights of choice of individuals and communities.
‒ despite the potential of digital technologies, the single market has been a tool for promoting inequalities between member states, degrading national production in portugal, making life particularly difficult for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are unable to cope with european competition and the brutal inequality of circumstances in the face of multinational hegemons. we advocate the end of the geoblocking. however, this should safeguard the right of authors and performers to a decent remuneration for their productions. we argue that the storage and management of data, because of the growing importance of digital technologies not only in the economy but also in society, should be under the control of the state. the liberalization of markets is a matter of deep concern, even if it is presented under a social facade. the propaganda of promises of jobs, growth, cohesion is always and always contradicted by reality. we voted against it.
the council's response to the plight of migrants, including refugees, is to strengthen the mechanisms for expulsion. on the pretext of increasing the number of refugees, the european union is mounting a real manhunt for all migrants who are not asylum seekers. the conclusions speak of increasing the operational capacity of the hotspots, the checkpoints that will serve to expel migrants from the territory of the european union more quickly. there is talk of increasing the identification of migrants, of supporting countries like italy or greece in so-called return operations, but which are actually expulsion operations. turkey has been promised 3 billion euros in exchange for the containment of migrants on its territory, under who knows what conditions of dignity and violation of their rights. but that doesn 't matter: what is important is that the european union gets rid of the problem that it has created and continues to create by destabilizing and interfering in the middle east and north africa. what the council should have decided was to divert the funds of frontex, europol and the internal security fund - and finally all the resources allocated to surveillance, border control and repression - to reception (this is hardly mentioned in its conclusions), social integration (much less mentioned in its conclusions) and the creation of legal and safe routes. it would be a dignified and humane solution.
madam president, we are dealing with overlapping crises but i believe that we should clearly identify the central problems which must be tackled if you want to keep the european union, if you want to keep the union of europeans. i believe that the two central problems are, firstly, managing the refugee crisis and, secondly, bringing down unemployment in europe. i believe that we need to tackle these two problems together. that is why i would like to propose that three big investment initiatives should be launched which can create a lot of new jobs, particularly for young people, dealing with three main objectives. the first is to build up a real european border, the second is to adapt our societies to integrate refugees, and the third is to cooperate with the countries of origin in order to manage the flow of refugees. to build up a real european border is a big undertaking. it involves physical infrastructure, logistics and software, among other things. adapting our towns and cities is also a big investment initiative because this means housing, education and urban planning. thirdly, in cooperation you can bring many young people to participate in such an action. so this is the kind of proposal we should come up with.
madam president, nineteen days ago, the resolution of banks in the euro zone was taken at european level, with a completely new method - the bail-in method. and that's what i wanted to talk about, because in 2015, the european council failed to deliver on two solemn commitments. the first was the failure to create a common credit line - the european stability mechanism was supposed to provide this line, which would ensure, if necessary, the financing of the joint resolution fund - which should be ready before entry into force. this commitment was part of the agreement with the european parliament and is contained in the report of the five presidents. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the absence of these two commitments undermines the relationship of trust in the european institutions. we hope that in 2016 the council will be able to deliver on what it has committed to.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you, mrs mogherini, on your work in this area. we all know that a peace process such as the one that is being consolidated in colombia is fragile and difficult, and it is our duty to make all efforts converge. but it is important to emphasise that this peace process has one very important feature it was focused on the victims, not the parties to the conflict. this option is remarkable because it is a pioneering option, and the agreement signed in december is a good example of this and a pillar of this process. the european union has made an important contribution along this whole path and the commercial dimension is not in vain, because, in addition to the economic dimension of the agreement with colombia and peru, an important commitment has also been made to work together for peace, democracy, respect for human rights and the promotion of the well-being of the peoples. the resolution we are debating today therefore combines three very important perspectives. first, it gives priority to the promotion of a lasting peace based on the defence of the populations, the victims of the conflict and the strengthening of civil society. but secondly, it takes on the trade partnership between the european union and colombia, with a platform for promoting not only economic recovery but also the values and practices of respect for peace, human rights and full democracy. finally, the resolution welcomes the spirit of commitment shown by the parties and calls for the development of a culture of non-violence and the development of trust in colombian society. these efforts have created new platforms for understanding and cooperation, and the european union can and must continue to support this process consistently, as it has done so far. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, thank you very much for the question you have put to me. the truth is that every day we have new conflicts, every day we have new challenges, but every time a conflict and every time a challenge is met with quality and success, there is more hope and there are more possibilities to solve others to which, however, we have not yet been able to give a similar response.
madam high representative, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2016 could be the most decisive year in colombia's recent history, with the signing of the peace agreement with the farc guerrillas, scheduled for march, putting an end to a conflict that, in half a century, has killed more than 220 000 people and left a lasting mark on colombian society. the european union, which has always encouraged the establishment of peace negotiations, will have to offer its full support to the government of juan manuel santos at this decisive moment in the implementation of this final peace agreement, as well as in the complex post-conflict challenges, plans which will require enormous resources: support for the strengthening of the economy, the reintegration of guerrillas, the transformation of guerrillas into political parties and compensation for victims, in the name of a lasting and lasting peace in colombia. i also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the solution to consolidating the peace process in colombia will inevitably be national reconciliation, as mrs mogherini has rightly said, in the name of lasting peace in colombia. i conclude, mr president, by hoping and wishing that this parliament will take a different approach to colombia than it unfortunately took to venezuela in its recent democratic transition process, where it was absent.
madam president, the execution of sheikh al-nimr and 46 others was an irresponsible provocation that could only escalate regional and global tension and obstruct the vienna talks on syria. failing to protect the saudi embassy and consulate, the iranian authorities, for their part, fell into the trap of riyadh's most sectarian and warmongering sectors. the european union must invest in dialogue with tehran, especially now that the nuclear agreement is being implemented and sanctions have been lifted, and i would therefore like to warmly congratulate you, mrs mogherini, on your leadership in this process. in the european union we can and must criticise tehran when necessary, particularly on human rights, but we must not fail to work with iran - where there is, after all, a functioning state - to end the war in syria and to combat daesh and other terrorist organisations that emanate from there, with saudi, qatari, other gulf and turkish sponsors, which can no longer be ignored by european governments, which must draw consequences for their relations with these countries.
mr president, the dutch presidency will be confronted with the daunting challenge of responding to the refugee crisis and protecting the schengen area. but you can be sure that if you want european citizens to be united in this great undertaking, you also need to ensure much stronger recovery. much stronger recovery means, to start with, an ambitious strategy for growth and jobs, updating europe 2020 and making the best use of the energy transition and the digital revolution. this is definitely needed. but let me say that the single market is important but it is not enough. you need to ensure that the investment plan will be implemented much more swiftly. you also need to tackle the difficult problems of tax avoidance and tax evasion in europe. we can no longer go on with the unfair competition between multinationals and smes, between member states. we need to support the commission action plan on tax policy and make sure that we have full transparency, we have country-by-country reporting and we ensure that taxes are paid where profits are made. but then we also have another problem, namely the euro area. the euro-area crisis is still there. we cannot be mistaken about this. it is still there which means that the problem is not only stability, but bringing convergence upwards – upward social and economic convergence. to do this you need to make sure that all members of the euro area have similar investment conditions. this will depend on completing the banking union and on providing a proper fiscal capacity for the euro area. this is also an important roadmap for the dutch presidency to push for.
mr president, the deepening of the single market is presented as the panacea for all ills - unemployment, poverty or the absence of growth. it is true that this deepening, in addition to fuelling the attack on the rights, public services and social functions of the state, is one of the driving forces behind the growing inequalities between the member states. moreover, like the common policies, the euro and economic and monetary union, it is a ruthless machine of divergence. the instrument which could mitigate this divergence or, preferably, counteract it - the budget of the european union - has been reduced to poverty, is the lowest ever. there is no indication that the situation will change during the dutch presidency, although it would be imperative to make an interim review, which would substantially increase this budget, especially when it is already clear who will benefit from the juncker plan - mainly the great powers and their economic groups. in a euro zone still mired in crisis, the problem of peripheral debts, which are among the largest in the world and have long demonstrated their unsustainability, continues to be ignored. as far as refugees are concerned, the european union continues to show one of its most inhuman faces.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the dutch presidency on its programme. it is a very ambitious programme and it is essentially on the right track. i would just like to stress two aspects. the first concerns the refugee question and therefore the problem of migration, and here i would sincerely like to see a greater commitment from the dutch presidency to the creation of a border guard and a coast guard, because i think this is the essential pillar, on the one hand, to defend our borders, but also to create what will be the embryo of a security policy and even a defence policy of the european union. if we have this force, which is part military, part police force, working - and unfortunately the results of the december council were disappointing - i think we can make a great step forward in protecting our borders and in defending the status of refugees, and even in migration policy for the union. the second aspect is a more negative one and has to do with the question of international trade. i have noticed that the priorities of the dutch presidency do not include mercosur. mercosur made its offer to the european union last year. how can the dutch presidency leave behind countries like brazil, argentina, uruguay and paraguay? how can there be a bet here, as we see in the case of, for example, mexico, in renegotiation, and if it is creating the most important trade space in latin america, and the eu is completely paralysed? this is strange, especially coming from the dutch presidency, which has historical relations with brazil and which has the suriname and the netherlands antilles space right on this front. it is strange that a country with this tradition has forgotten mercosur.
mr president, i welcome the ambitious programme of the dutch presidency of the european union and the capacity for choice it shows. these are four priorities, but they are four priorities which, if they are to be dealt with with with results, imply the mobilisation of all the resources and agendas of the european union. responding to the challenges of migration and security threats is a priority closely linked to the confidence of a successful innovation and job creation drive. at the same time, innovation and job creation will benefit from the leadership taken in delivering the paris climate agenda and from the commitment to the energy tradition and the digital revolution. but i would also like to point out, mr prime minister, a shortcoming in the priority of your presidency: trade agreements. the netherlands has a strong tradition of trade agreements. the progress made in the transatlantic partnership and mercosur was very important. i call for mercosur to be a priority of the dutch presidency.
in writing. a brief reading of the dutch presidency's programme immediately brings to mind the first and main theme entitled 'a comprehensive approach to migration and international security', an approach that has all the ingredients it should not have. in a jumble of issues and problems which must be properly dealt with in their separate places because of their completely different nature, the dutch presidency is following the eu line of putting terrorism and migrants in the same bag, in the same 'comprehensive' approach, as the text itself says, interlinked. the text goes on to say that the issue of the eu's external and internal security is a matter to be dealt with together, linking the idea of lack of security to the flow of migrants, referring to an 'integrated approach to such complex issues as the migration crisis, terrorism and cybersecurity', clearly advocating 'common solutions in the areas of justice, security, asylum and migration'. the deliberate confusion between migrants and the safety of eu citizens is a good example of the xenophobic and racist nature of eu policies. we are not talking about isolated measures by any eu government. we are dealing here with the programme of the presidency of the council of the eu, one of the main decision-making bodies of the european union. this is unacceptable. *** and
‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between the security forces of the member states, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security and results in and promotes greater mutual trust between member states. certain requirements must therefore be respected, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality. therefore, in order to allow the automated exchange of vehicle registration data, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorises the start of the automatic exchange, as latvia has successfully implemented it.
‒ this report aims at the launch in latvia of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data (vrd) in the context of the deepening of crossborder cooperation prüm decision (2008/615/jha) in the fight against terrorism and crime. the provision of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states participating in that transmission. the prüm convention, signed in may 2005 in prüm, germany, between seven member states austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands aims to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system which reduces the freedoms and guarantees of citizens and which calls into question the sovereignty of states in the control and safeguarding of data and information. the aim is to create a supranational structure which will progressively impose on the member states strategies and actions outside national and democratic control. we therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch in latvia of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data. since the general provisions on data protection laid down in decision 2008/615/jha have been incorporated into the national law of latvia, latvia may participate in the exchange of such data.
‒ in writing. in the light of article 25 (2) of council decision 2008/615/jha of 23 june 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the transfer of personal data under that decision may only take place if the general provisions on data protection laid down in chapter 6 of that decision have been incorporated into the national legislation of the territory of the member states participating in that transfer. latvia has complied with article 20 of the decision and should therefore be entitled to receive and supply personal data pursuant to article 12 of decision 2008/615/jha. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism,
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch in latvia of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data. the european union has been forced to step up its crossborder cooperation in the current fight against terrorism and organised crime, and to this end latvia's contribution to the transmission and reception of personal data in the context of automated data exchange on vehicle registration data is essential, which is why i supported this report.
‒ please note that the provision of personal data provided for under this decision cannot take place until the general provisions on data protection laid down in this decision have been transposed into national law in the territory of the member states participating in such transmission. the aim of the prüm decision is thus to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system which reduces the freedoms and guarantees of individuals and which calls into question the sovereignty of states with regard to the control and safeguarding of data and information. the aim is to create a supranational structure which will progressively impose strategies and actions on the member states outside national and democratic control.
‒ this is intended to be a procedure for the adoption of the council decision on decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation - prüm decision - in combating terrorism and crime. the report specifically aims at the launch of automated vehicle registration data exchange (vrd) in latvia. this report is part of the prüm convention, which was signed on 27 may 2005 in prüm, germany, by seven member states - austria, belgium, france, germany, luxembourg, spain and the netherlands. the aim of the prüm decision is thus to intensify and accelerate the exchange of information between authorities. we know that under the pretext of fighting terrorism and crime, the eu has been setting up a surveillance system which reduces the freedoms and guarantees of individuals and which calls into question the sovereignty of states in the control and safeguarding of data and information. the aim is to create a supranational structure which will progressively impose strategies and actions on the member states outside national and democratic control. i therefore vote against.
‒ one of the most tangible successes and one that european citizens appreciate is the schengen area. for the worst reasons, it has been evident almost daily how this area of free movement requires delicate balances, cooperation and solidarity which require always mutual trust between its members. the field of justice is part of this toolkit which aims to promote mutual trust while protecting citizens. we must ensure a minimum level of criminal procedural safeguards across the continent that covers everyone, regardless of nationality. given their complexity and proximity to the core of the sovereignty of states, several rights, such as the presumption of innocence, have been identified as requiring such harmonisation. the agreement reached in the negotiations with the council is a good one and i am therefore very pleased that it has been approved.
‒ the commission has presented the final package procedural rights containing three proposals for a directive, following the adoption of the first three instruments of the european union's roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these three directives will complete the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the proposal strengthens certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. i voted in favour.
‒ this report is based on the presentation of the final package procedural rights, which contains three proposals for a directive that are part of the eu roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these directives aim to complete the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the eu. it is worth noting that a process of reducing the rights and safeguards of suspects and accused persons is under way in certain member states. the presumption of innocence is an essential principle to prevent arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings, and is a principle underlying the protection of the right to a fair trial, in accordance with article 11 (1) of the universal declaration of human rights, which states that 'everyone accused of a criminal offence shall be presumed innocent until proven guilty in a public trial in which all necessary guarantees of defence have been provided'. in the light of the content of the proposal, it is worth noting that portuguese law already provides these guarantees in essence. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strengthening of certain aspects of the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, namely the presumption of innocence until proven guilty by a final decision and the right to appear at trial. the presumption of innocence and the right to be tried in criminal proceedings are fundamental values for a state to be considered to be a state governed by the rule of law, a value enshrined in article 6 of the echr, article 48 of the cfreu, the iccpr and the udhr.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report because it deals substantially with the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the principle of the presumption of innocence, or of non-guilt, is a fundamental principle of criminal procedure and establishes the status of innocence as a rule with regard to the accused of committing a criminal offence. this proposal aims to ensure that the principle of the presumption of innocence is applied at all stages of criminal proceedings. in this connection, i believe it is essential to extend the scope of application of a fundamental principle of the rule of law, the 'presumption of innocence of the accused', which is also enshrined in the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen, the universal declaration of human rights and the european convention on human rights.
‒ this proposal for a directive is part of a broader package to strengthen the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, in order to ensure full respect for their rights of defence and a fair trial throughout the european union. to that end, it lays down minimum standards concerning certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at the trial itself. on 4 november 2015, the council and parliament agreed on this proposal, and parliament succeeded in achieving some objectives, in particular with regard to: clarifying the temporal scope of the directive (the directive applies at all stages of the procedure from the time a person is considered a suspect or accused person until the final conclusion of the procedure); prohibiting any statement by public authorities presuming the guilt of the accused or suspect; and enshrining the principle that the burden of proof is on the prosecution and the right to remain silent. this is a particularly important initiative, as the presumption of innocence is an essential dimension of the right to a fair trial. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings. the proposal for a directive which i voted for is particularly important, since in many of the member states of the european union there is a reduction in the rights of suspects and accused persons, as well as an erosion of the principle of the presumption of innocence. the commission initially adopted a minimalist approach and may 'level down' national provisions. the proposal is therefore to clarify the scope of the directive, both at the personal, temporal and material level. the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself, the right not to cooperate and the right to be present at one's own trial are also fundamental elements. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report. it is essential to protect suspects or accused persons from premature convictions and it is important that member states ensure appropriate legislation to prevent the usual violations of the presumption of innocence by the media.
‒ the adoption of rules guaranteeing the presumption of innocence is an important step towards balancing repressive measures and the right of individuals to a fair trial. the court of human rights believes that there are some minimum requirements for the presumption of innocence that must be generally respected: the right not to be publicly declared guilty by the authorities before trial; the burden of proof that must be on the prosecution; the right of the accused to be informed of the charges against him; the right to be present in court; the right not to cooperate and to remain silent (and to be informed of this right). these are requirements that all eu member states must comply with. only then can we have the necessary legitimacy to demand them from third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which reinforces certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be tried in criminal proceedings. minimum procedural rights for suspects and accused persons should be established, and the principle of presumption of innocence should be respected, in order to promote a fairer and more balanced system. the proposal includes the reversal of the burden of proof on the accused, the right to remain silent and the non-return clause as instruments in the service of citizens, which provide a new framework for guaranteeing and safeguarding their rights in criminal proceedings. for the reasons stated above, i supported this report.
‒ i consider the presumption of innocence to be a fundamental principle of the law and an essential element for a fair trial. as cases of repeated infringements of this principle have been recorded, the commission took the initiative to legislate by proposing a new directive. the commission's initiative includes provisions to strengthen the protection of suspected or accused children and the right to legal aid, among others. the report voted in plenary reinforces some aspects, such as those relating to the additional protection of vulnerable people. in accordance with the commission's initiative and the perspective reflected in the report, i voted in favour of this initiative.
‒ this report contains three proposals for a directive, following the adoption of the first three instruments of the european union's roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these three directives aim to complete the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. at a time when the rights of suspects and accused persons are being curtailed in certain member states of the european union, it should be noted that the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to prevent arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings, as well as a principle underlying the protection of the right to a fair trial. the proposal is, in essence, in line with the content of the proposal, but it is part of the creation of a european legal framework which, with a view to harmonisation between member states, is intended to be binding on national legislation.
‒ this report is based on the presentation by the commission of the final package procedural rights, which contains three proposals for directives, following the adoption of the first three instruments of the european union's roadmap for strengthening procedural rights. these three directives aim to complete the european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle for preventing arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings and a principle underlying the protection of the right to a fair trial. the proposal is in line with the content of the proposal and is designed to create a european legal framework for harmonisation between member states. it is intended to be binding on national legislation.
‒ this proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment updates directive 89/686/eec in line with the new legislative framework, harmonising and clarifying the regulatory requirements in this area. although the directive has successfully achieved its objectives of creating a single market and ensuring a high level of protection for users of personal protective equipment, some problems have been encountered in its implementation. ppe is any means or device intended to be used by a person against possible risks to his health or safety while performing a certain activity. i support the ford report because i believe that this new proposal amends and clarifies a number of provisions of the existing directive, bringing it into line with the provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec establishing a common framework for the marketing of products.
‒ the placing of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the eu market has been fully harmonised by council directive 89/686/eec. over the 25 years since then, this directive has enabled the single market to function smoothly. however, the current legislation on ppe needs to be updated. this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, enhances cooperation between actors and introduces common definitions. the proposal essentially concerns the modernisation and simplification of a system which is already working well and does not require substantial changes to its objectives. the amendments are therefore intended to clarify certain aspects, on the basis of reservations made by member states and by the security industry federations. the report also proposes to eliminate the maximum five-year period of validity of the eu type-examination certificate, taking into account reservations made by economic operators. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that directive 89/686/eec be replaced by a regulation, given the lack of flexibility in its transposition. the purpose of this directive was to harmonise health and safety requirements for personal protective equipment (ppe) in all member states and to remove barriers to trade in such equipment. this regulation lays down requirements for the design and manufacture of ppe intended to be placed on the market in order to ensure the protection of the health and safety of users and to lay down rules on the free movement of ppe within the eu. it is essential that ppe does not endanger the health or safety of persons, domestic animals or property. it is therefore imperative that health and safety rules are well defined and therefore respected. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation, since such legal changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. although the wearing of personal protective equipment (ppe) has been harmonised since 1989 and is working well in the single market, there is now a need to update the legislation in force with the new legislative framework. this update consists of a package of measures designed to improve and simplify the rules applicable to goods in the single market. it is important that there is more oversight in our marketplace capable of locating and returning non-compliant goods. the safety of our workers is paramount.
‒ this proposal aims to adapt council directive 89/686/eec on personal protective equipment by updating and adapting it to the new legislative framework. council directive 89/686/eec has ensured the proper functioning of the single market over the last 25 years and will not need major amendments. i support this proposal for improving and simplifying the rules applicable to goods in the single market, for clarifying the role of economic operators, the powers of market surveillance authorities and for strengthening cooperation between actors. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ it is assumed that only truly effective instruments can provide an irreproachable level of protection for the safety of workers, given that accidents at the workplace are often caused by the absence of adequate protection systems and their incorrect use. the dignity of the world of work must be enhanced and any doubts and misunderstandings must be reduced as much as possible. the report which i voted for seeks to clarify aspects of personal protective equipment such as requiring importers and distributors to alert both the manufacturer and the market surveillance authorities to the potential existence of non-compliant personal protective equipment and requiring that any appeal procedures be transparent and accessible.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal to replace council directive 89/686/eec on personal protective equipment. this is a proposal to adopt a regulation which ensures an even higher level of protection of human health and safety than we had before, while safeguarding the existence of a framework of fair competition for economic operators on the union market and simplifying the regulatory framework in this area. since i am in general agreement with the measures contained in this report, i give it my vote in favour.
‒ personal protective equipment is essential for many activities. since 1989 there has been community legislation on this subject. it was this legislation that, through a directive, made it possible to harmonise the different existing legislation and open up the single market also for this type of products which today have an estimated value of eur 10 billion per year. however, as a result of new technical challenges, increased safety requirements and some proliferation of legislation, there has always been a need to produce new legislation to meet these designs. in the present situation, legislation has had to be updated and brought into line with the new legislative framework, which consists of a package of measures designed to improve and simplify the rules applicable to goods in the single market. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the purpose of the directive was to harmonise the health and safety requirements for ppe in all member states and to remove barriers to trade in ppe. this regulation lays down requirements for the design and manufacture of ppe (new on the eu market when placed on the market) intended to be made available on the market in order to ensure the protection of the health and safety of users and lays down rules on the free movement of ppe within the eu. it is essential that ppe does not endanger the health or safety of persons, domestic animals or property. it is therefore imperative that health and safety rules are well defined and therefore respected. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation, since such legal changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power.
‒ arguing that there is virtually no flexibility in transposing directives based on the principles of the new approach into national law, it is proposed that directive 89/686/eec be replaced by a regulation. the purpose of that directive was to harmonise health and safety requirements for personal protective equipment in all member states and to remove barriers to trade. this regulation lays down requirements for the design and manufacture of ppe (new on the eu market when placed on the market) intended to be made available on the market in order to ensure the protection of the health and safety of users and to lay down rules on the free movement of ppe within the eu. it is essential that ppe does not endanger the health or safety of persons, domestic animals or property. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation. since such legal changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power. we voted yes.
‒ the proposal for a regulation on gas appliances aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec by harmonising the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market and/or putting them into service with regard to safety risks and the rational use of energy, and to ensure that clear rules for the gas appliance sector are applied uniformly throughout the union. the gas sector plays a major role in the eu economy and employs 476 000 people in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple portable stoves to boilers for large buildings, and gas appliance stocks currently stand at 470 million in the eu and are growing steadily, with annual sales of over 30 million units. i support the stihler report because i consider that the provisions introduced as a result of alignment with the decision on the new legislative framework are satisfactory and that the changes introduced to enhance consumer safety, such as avoiding carbon monoxide poisoning of people (which is the main cause of death in europe related to gas appliances), enrich the new legislative text.
‒ the gas sector plays a major role in the eu economy and employs 476 000 people in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple portable stoves to boilers for large buildings. there are currently 470 million gas appliances in the eu. over 30 million units are sold every year. the new regulation lays down clear and detailed rules which will apply uniformly and simultaneously throughout the union. in accordance with the principles of full harmonisation, member states are not allowed to impose stricter or additional requirements in their national legislation on the placing on the market of gas appliances. i voted in favour.
‒ it is proposed that directive 2009/142/ec be replaced by a regulation, given the lack of flexibility in its transposition. this directive laid down rules for the placing on the market and putting into service of gas appliances, i.e. appliances burning gaseous fuels used for cooking, refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, producing hot water, lighting or washing, as well as fan burners and heat generators to be fitted to such burners. this regulation should apply to domestic and non-domestic appliances intended for a number of specified applications and to equipment intended to be incorporated into such appliances, and also covers appliances and equipment imported from third countries. it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of health and safety of persons and ensure the protection of consumers and goods as well as the rational use of energy. it is also essential that smes in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation, as such legislative changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances. it is of the utmost importance that the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers are identical in all member states, in particular the requirements concerning the safety of gas appliances. only then will the conditions be met for the free movement of gas appliances.
‒ this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances is intended to replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive ensures the free movement of gas appliances and has contributed to the completion and functioning of the single market and to the harmonisation of the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market and/or putting them into service. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation, in line with the general political commitment to work towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory framework. the regulation will reduce the costs of transposing a directive and avoid the risks of divergence in transposition, which can result in different levels of safety protection and distort the internal market. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the strengthening of precautionary measures to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning by inhalation, one of the main causes of death in europe related to gas appliances.
‒ the essential requirements that gas appliances must meet in order to be made available on the eu market are set out. it lays down clear and detailed rules which will apply uniformly and simultaneously throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ this proposal replaces directive 2009/142/eec on the free movement of gas appliances and represents a very important step towards the completion and full functioning of the single market and towards the harmonisation of the conditions for the operation and placing on the market of gas appliances. gas appliances cover a wide and varied range of products for both domestic and commercial/industrial use, and the sector plays an important role in the union economy, providing almost half a million jobs. it is also noted that the current number of appliances in europe has grown rapidly in recent years. the replacement of the previous directive is a further step towards the deepening of the single market towards greater legislative harmonisation in the context of the conditions for the placing on the market and the operation of such appliances, in particular with regard to the implementation of higher requirements as regards their safety and the rational use of energy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. as already in the legislation here amended, the proposal excludes appliances specifically designed to perform tasks in the industrial process. the text now before us has already been harmonized by the co-legislators. because i believe that this proposal for a regulation will improve domestic safety and bring benefits for informed consumers, i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ it is proposed that directive 2009/142/ec, which laid down rules for the placing on the market and putting into service of gas appliances, be replaced by a regulation. this regulation should apply to domestic and non-domestic appliances intended for a number of specified applications and to equipment intended to be incorporated into such appliances, and covers new appliances and equipment manufactured by a manufacturer established in the eu or new or used appliances and equipment imported from a third country. it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of the public interest, in particular the health and safety of persons and domestic animals, the guarantee of the protection of consumers and of property and the guarantee of the rational use of energy. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation, since such legislative changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances, replacing directive 2009/142/ec, which lays down essential requirements with which gas appliances must comply in order to be placed on the market in the european union. i therefore consider that this directive is an example of harmonisation of european union legislation, which will not only guarantee the free movement of gas appliances, but will also allow for full harmonisation of the conditions for placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances within its scope, with regard to gas-related safety risks and the rational use of energy. i also think it is important that this initiative is in line with the single market act, ensuring consumer confidence in the quality of the gas appliances available, by imposing clear standards which will be applied uniformly and simultaneously throughout the union, especially with regard to the strengthening of the market surveillance of gas appliances.
‒ it is proposed that directive 2009/142/ec be replaced by a regulation. that directive laid down rules for the placing on the market and putting into service of gas appliances, i.e. appliances burning gaseous fuels used for cooking, refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, producing hot water, lighting or washing, as well as fan burners and heat generators to be fitted to such burners. it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of the public interest, in particular the health and safety of persons and domestic animals, the guarantee of the protection of consumers and of property and the guarantee of the rational use of energy. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation. since such legislative changes should not constitute a blanket way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and therefore increasing the concentration of market power, we voted in favour.
‒ this proposal for a regulation aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cableway installations and ensures the free movement of these products within the eu by repealing directive 2000/9/ec. cableway installations are mainly lifting systems such as funiculars, cable cars, ski lifts and other facilities for tourism or sporting purposes. i support the white report because i believe that on the one hand the change in legal instrument allows for better regulation and simplification of the regulatory framework, and is in line with the decision on the new legislative framework, and because the new proposal introduces more clarity and is based on the precautionary principle.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in the regulation. as regards cable installations, the regulation also provides for full harmonisation of the essential requirements to which they must conform. the regulation repeals and replaces directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 on cableway installations for the carriage of persons. since the regulation provides for full harmonisation, member states are not allowed to impose stricter or additional requirements in their national legislation. however, member states remain competent to regulate other aspects of cable installations, such as land use, land use planning and environmental protection. i voted in favour.
‒ it is proposed that directive 2000/9/ec be replaced by a regulation, given the lack of flexibility in its transposition. this directive laid down rules for cableway installations designed, constructed and operated for the transport of persons, and confined itself to laying down the essential requirements applicable to such installations. the regulation lays down rules on the availability on the market and free movement of safety subsystems and components of cableway installations and provides for rules on the design, construction and entry into service of new cableway installations. it shall apply in full to new cable installations and to changes to cable installations requiring a new authorisation. it is essential that cable installations do not endanger the health and safety of persons and property and that safety rules are well defined and respected. it is also essential that smes in the sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation, so as not to favour the largest companies in the sector and, consequently, increase the concentration of market power.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations. the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. it is of the utmost importance that all safety components and subsystems are designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in the regulation. in addition to those requirements, the union market surveillance measures should be further strengthened.
‒ this proposal for a regulation on cable installations is intended to replace directive 2000/9/ec and aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety subsystems and components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. the amendment takes into account the need to ensure uniform application throughout the union. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation, with the aim of making efforts towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory framework. the regulation will reduce the costs of transposing a directive and avoid the risks of divergence in transposition, which can result in different levels of safety protection and distort the internal market. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ i welcome the presentation of this report, which aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety subsystems and components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. i voted in favour of this report because, while it ensures uniform application throughout the union, it also allows member states to continue to regulate aspects of cable installations (land use, land use planning and environmental protection). this will ensure compatibility with the decision on the new legislative framework (nql) and market surveillance. also with regard to subsystems, the conformity assessment procedures for safety components provided for in directive 2000/9/ec on cableway installations are maintained.
the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in the regulation.
in writing. this report concerns the european commission's proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council updating existing union legislation on cable installations for the transport of persons, such as funiculars, cable cars, chairlifts, cable cars or funiculars. this regulation replaces directive 2000/9/ec on cableway installations by a regulation laying down rules on the design and construction of cableway installations, their making available on the market and the free movement of the subsystems and safety components underlying them. the aim is not only to ensure a high level of safety of cable installations for users, workers and third parties, but also to lay down the essential safety requirements to be met. the proposal therefore constitutes a further step in the deepening of the single market (clearly demonstrated by the fact that it replaces a directive with a regulation) and another example of union legislative harmonisation which ensures not only free movement within the eu single market but also the same conditions for the placing on the market of such installations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ there are currently 17 500 cable or, as they are more commonly known, cableway installations in the european union. in portugal, some of these equipment are also installed in mainland portugal and madeira. this proposal for legislation clarifies the applicable terminology and essentially harmonises at member state level some hitherto open safety-related issues. i think that the proposal represents a major improvement on the present situation and that is why i voted in favour.
‒ directive 2000/9/ec laid down rules for cableway installations designed, constructed and operated for the carriage of persons, but only laid down the essential requirements applicable to such installations. cableway installations are defined as a complete system, deployed on site, consisting of infrastructure and subsystems, designed, constructed, assembled and placed in service for the purpose of transporting persons, and in which traction is ensured by cables laid along the route. the regulation lays down rules on the availability on the market and free movement of safety subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and provides for rules on the design, construction and entry into service of new cableway installations. it is essential that cable installations do not endanger the health and safety of persons or property and that safety rules are well defined and therefore respected. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations, replacing directive 2000/9/ec on cableway installations for the carriage of passengers. i consider that this directive is an example of full harmonisation of european union legislation on the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cable installations, ensuring not only the free movement of these products within the european union but also the safety of european citizens. i also think it is important that this initiative is in line with the single market act, which means that all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in the regulation, avoiding the risks of divergent transposition of the regulation by member states, which could result in different levels of safety protection and distort the internal market.
‒ it is proposed that directive 2000/9/ec be replaced by a regulation. that directive laid down rules for cableway installations designed, constructed and operated for the transport of persons, and confined itself to laying down the essential requirements applicable to such installations. the regulation lays down rules on the availability on the market and free movement of safety subsystems and components for cableway installations and provides for rules on the design, construction and entry into service of new cableway installations. it is essential that cable installations do not endanger the health and safety of persons or property. it is therefore imperative that there be well-defined safety rules and that they be respected. it is also essential that smes in the member states active in this sector, in particular manufacturers, can receive the necessary support (technical and financial) to respond correctly and in a timely manner to the changes introduced by the regulation. since such legislative changes should not be a way of favouring the largest companies in the sector and thus increasing the concentration of market power, we voted in favour.
‒ the gsp consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), under which no duties will be charged on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries. the parliament of the kyrgyz republic ignored the european parliament resolution of 15 january 2015 and proposed a draft legislation that violates the principle that sexual orientation and gender identity are issues belonging to the sphere of the individual right to privacy as guaranteed by international human rights law, under which equality and non-discrimination are to be protected and freedom of expression is to be guaranteed. i therefore agree that the delegated regulation cannot enter into force.
‒ the situation of political instability that has been experienced in kyrgyzstan over the last decade, the difficulties and contradictions that result from it, are well known. apart from the fact that there is no concrete news confirming the timeliness and accuracy of the report in this objection, we are aware of the pressure and interference exerted by the west in this former soviet republic as a result of the geopolitical game of control of the region and the imperial ambitions underlying it. pressures recently heightened by the country's accession to the eurasian economic union a sovereign decision which must be respected. in this context, we do not support the call for sanctions.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution objecting to the delegated act on a system of generalised tariff preferences. i consider that the conditions for the adoption of the delegated act under article 290 tfeu are met.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to article 10 (4) of regulation (eu) no 978/2012, the commission may adopt delegated acts to establish or amend annex iii in order to grant the requesting country the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (sgp+) by adding that country to the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries. the gsp is composed of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the gsp+ scheme under which no duties will be charged on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from the beneficiary countries. given that significant deficiencies have been identified in several relevant gsp+ conventions, i believe that the beneficiary countries should make a binding commitment to maintain ratification of the conventions listed in their respective annex viii and to ensure their effective implementation. considering the deficiencies pointed out as serious failures in the effective implementation of the relevant conventions, i am of the opinion that the delegated regulation should be amended.
‒ the gsp consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), under which no duties will be charged on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries. according to the report, in order to become a gsp+ beneficiary country, kyrgyzstan has to fulfil a set of requirements, namely ratification of all 28 conventions listed in the respective annex viii of regulation (eu) no 978/2012. the reservations and shortcomings listed in this objection report lack any factual support and therefore, on the basis of the principle of 'change through approximation', i consider that the entry of this country into the gsp+ will represent for the union an additional form of pressure, control and monitoring of the implementation of the 28 conventions on human rights, labour rights and environmental protection. this objective pressure would not exist if the country were outside this system, so that the actual compliance with the 28 conventions will be the real test of its continuance in the preferential system.
we recognize the existence of difficulties in the kyrgyz republic, many of them arising from aggressive and imperialist policies, the consequences of which always fall on the people and the workers. we do not follow the assessment underlying the annulment of the delegated act. we also believe that the problems in that country must be solved by the local population, with the strictest respect for its sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ we are aware of the political instability that has been experienced in kyrgyzstan over the last decade, the difficulties and contradictions that result from it. we have no news that confirms the account expressed in this objection at this time. we are well aware of the pressure and interference which the west has been imposing on this former soviet republic as a result of the geopolitical game of control in that region, pressure which has recently been amplified by the process of accession of that country to the eurasian economic union. we reject the position of calling for the imposition of sanctions on a sovereign country which is seeking to boost its own development project. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ poor diet is now by far the leading cause of disease and death worldwide, exceeding the combined figures for tobacco, alcohol and physical inactivity. the who itself recommends that infants be exclusively breastfed for the first six months of life, that from this age on breast milk be supplemented with a range of appropriate, safe and nutrient-rich foods, and that salt and sugar not be added to complementary foods. all member states have adopted the international code of marketing of breast-milk substitutes and its 16 subsequent resolutions, which aim to ensure that all parents and carers receive objective and truly independent information, to remove obstacles to breastfeeding and to ensure that breast-milk substitutes, if necessary, are used safely. however, the measures in the delegated regulation are not sufficient to protect infants and young children against obesity and the maximum level of sugar allowed should be significantly reduced in accordance with the who recommendations. it is therefore agreed that this regulation should not enter into force.
‒ the main objection to this delegated act concerns the way in which the industry advertises and markets products containing processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. the measures in the delegated regulation are considered not to be sufficient to protect infants and young children against childhood obesity. the rules proposed by this delegated act turn these products into potential trojan horses for introducing sugar levels above those recommended by the world health organisation for babies over 6 months of age. as these are foods targeted at consumers with the most vulnerable endocrine system (lactants and young children), it is justified to call for the application of the principle of zero tolerance for pesticides. the european commission is being criticized in various ways, and we agree with them. the committee also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the quality of foodstuffs, which would be compatible with the common market. no health benefits should be claimed in the consumption of these products and the labelling and marketing rules should be reviewed in line with the who recommendations on foods for infants and young children. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the delegated regulation on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 609/2013 in part 3 of annex i allows 30% of the energy in baby food to be obtained from sugar (7.5 g sugar/100 kcal equals 30 kcal provided by sugar for every 100 kcal of energy) contrary to the health recommendations of the world health organisation, which advises significant reductions in total sugar consumption. i agree that the introduction of these foods, especially at such an early stage, may contribute to the increase in childhood obesity rates and may affect the development of children's food preferences and that in the case of infants and young children, the levels of added sugar should be kept to a minimum. it is important to note that who recommends that infants be exclusively breastfed for the first six months of life and that from this age onwards breast milk be supplemented with a range of appropriate, safe and nutrient-rich foods and that salt and sugar are not added to complementary foods. i believe that the recommendations of the who and the scientific committees of the member states should be taken into account, and that we should then adopt the delegated regulation.
‒ the reason for voting this objection to the delegated act is related to the concerns about obesity, contaminants, labelling and transparency with regard to the commission regulation. i therefore believe that the measures are not sufficient to protect infants and young children against obesity and that the maximum permitted sugar level should be significantly reduced in accordance with the recommendations of the world health organisation. it also considers that zero tolerance should be given to pesticides, so that increasingly stringent maximum residue limits are established, based on new scientific evidence on the health effects of the active substances and their metabolites.
‒ the measures in the delegated regulation are not sufficient to protect infants and young children against obesity. hence this objection. the maximum permitted sugar level should be significantly reduced in accordance with the who recommendations. the labelling and marketing of processed baby food should make it clear that the products are not suitable for children under six months of age and should not compromise the recommendation on exclusive breastfeeding during the first six months. all labelling and marketing should be reviewed in accordance with the world health assembly recommendations on foods for infants and young children.
in this respect, the epp group, of which i am a member, has decided not to object to this delegated act and to accept the commitment made by commissioner miguel arias cañete to consult the european food safety authority with a view to reviewing the standards and compositional requirements and information on processed cereal-based foods with regard to their sugar levels. however, who data show that the amounts of sugar in food allowed by the delegated act are above the recommended doses for infants, and i therefore consider it urgent that all measures in this delegated act be reviewed, including also with regard to the labelling and advertising of specialised products for specific medical conditions. in view of the above, but accepting the commissioner's commitment, i considered it more prudent to abstain.
‒ the resolution considers that the measures in the delegated regulation are not sufficient to protect infants and young children against childhood obesity. the rules proposed by this delegated act turn these products into potential trojan horses for introducing sugar levels above those recommended by the world health organisation for babies over 6 months of age. in the delegated act concerned, the commission proposes to accept that 30% of the energy contained in food comes from sugars, whereas the who recommends a maximum of 10%, with 5% being the ideal. in addition, in the case of a food intended for consumers with the most vulnerable endocrine system (lactants and young children), it is requested that the principle of zero tolerance for pesticides be applied. the european commission has not yet submitted the long-awaited report on infant formulae and regulation (eu) no 609/2013 was adopted before the european food safety authority published the scientific opinion on the basic composition of infant formula and follow-on formula of 5 august 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the delegated act on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods as the european commission has not submitted to the european parliament and the council the report on infant formula required by regulation (eu) no 609/2013 (article 12), which is a requirement for the adoption of national strategies to reduce childhood obesity. in addition, the delegated regulation allows 30% of the energy in baby food to be obtained from sugar, which is contrary to all health recommendations of the world health organisation and the scientific committees of the member states, which advise significant reductions in total sugar consumption, which is likely to contribute to increased levels of childhood obesity and which may affect the development of food preferences of children in the long term.
‒ the main objection to this delegated act concerns the way in which the industry advertises and markets products containing processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. the measures in the delegated regulation are considered not to be sufficient to protect infants and young children against childhood obesity. the rules proposed by this delegated act turn these products into potential trojan horses for introducing sugar levels above those recommended by the world health organisation for babies over 6 months of age. as these are foods targeted at consumers with the most vulnerable endocrine system (lactants and young children), it is justified to call for the application of the principle of zero tolerance for pesticides. the european commission is being criticized in various ways, and we agree with them. we voted yes.
‒ the end of this internal conflict, which has claimed millions of victims for more than 50 years, and the achievement of a stable and lasting peace in colombia are a priority, first of all for the country, but also for the european union and the international community. the eu and colombia have established a framework of close political, economic and trade cooperation not only to strengthen economic and trade relations between the parties, but also to strengthen peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens. it is important that the negotiations be concluded as soon as possible in order to determine the final end of the conflict, which will be a real milestone in the modern history of colombia, and to this end we call on both parties, all the political forces in colombia and the whole of colombian society to make a positive contribution to putting an end to the violence.
‒ we signed a resolution which contained very positive elements concerning the peace process in colombia. we highlight:- the explicit nature of the conflict, dismantling some current mystifications;- the defense of peace, through a bilateral ceasefire, the renunciation of the use of violence and reconciliation;- the call for the extension of the process to the eln (not a tripartite negotiation, but that the government can move forward with a parallel process);- the pursuit of policies that promote equality and development, highlighting the agrarian reform;- the end of the policies of persecution of left-wing groups and forces and trade unions;- the establishment of truth commissions and support for victims of war, forgiveness and amnesty for political crimes, but not in the case of genocide and crimes against humanity, with the participation of ngos and victims;- the rejection of the eu-colombia-peru trade treaty. this joint resolution, signed by several political groups, loses some important references and sees others added, in a legalistic, conservative and eurocentric logic. however, the resolution does not change what we believe is essential in this process: support for the peace process and negotiation between equals, without officially stigmatising the farc, allowing political and economic rights that have been demanded for decades.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the colombian peace process. peacebuilding will contribute to combating inequalities and poverty and to the recognition of social and political rights.
‒ the 50 years of internal conflict in colombia have caused millions of victims and continued suffering for the colombian people. i welcome the efforts of the government and the farc to achieve peace and the numerous agreements already signed between the parties for the implementation of the final peace agreement. i support the assistance of the union and various civil society organisations and consider it extremely important that the international community, if necessary, accompany and support the post-conflict phase. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the agreements reached will allow a country divided and ravaged by this armed conflict to rise again and to focus on the creation of a state governed by the rule of law, for the people and with a view to improving the living conditions of colombians.
in the light of the contradictory positions that have been demonstrated, this report welcomes and supports the agreements reached between the government of colombia and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia to achieve a lasting and stable peace in the country, and draws attention to the agreements on comprehensive rural reform, the resolution of the problem of illicit drugs and the creation of a special jurisdiction for peace. this includes the establishment of a truth, coexistence and non-repetition commission, as well as the unit for the search for persons missing in the context and as a result of the conflict and the unit for the investigation and dismantling of criminal organizations. this quest for peace promotes an agreement unique in history that puts victims at the centre of the approach and sets as a priority truth, justice without impunity, effective reparation for the damage suffered and non-repetition. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the resolution seeks to convey the european parliament's political support for the peace process between the colombian government and the farc. this is a historic moment. it has been 50 years of armed conflict and the ep cannot but support it. it is also important to recognise the role of victims' associations, ngos and civil society in the success of these agreements. we endorse the call for the national liberation army (eln) to be involved in the peace process in colombia, and call on the colombian government to initiate a parallel negotiation process which could be conducted on similar terms. i would stress the suggestion to set up a gender subcommittee to ensure that the gender dimension is integrated into the negotiations and that victims of sexual violence and women's rights organisations are involved in the peace talks. this should serve as an inspiration for other peace processes around the world.
‒ the eu's special ties with colombia have allowed for the establishment of a framework of close political, economic and trade cooperation, established by the november 2009 memorandum of understanding and the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other (signed in june 2012, to which ecuador has in the meantime decided to accede, negotiations with the latter having been concluded in july 2014), the aim of which was not only to strengthen economic and trade relations between the parties, but also to strengthen peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens. given the remarkable political efforts to consolidate peace and an effort to combat inequalities and to make progress in the full and permanent guarantee of human rights, these were fundamental reasons for voting in favour of this report which is of the utmost importance to eu-colombia relations.
‒ this resolution contains positive elements. the context of the conflict is made clearer by the explicit reference to the paramilitaries. however, it says nothing about the true nature of these paramilitary forces, which are in practice the armed arm of the government, through which it acts with impunity. it is of great importance to mention the role of victims' associations and other civil organisations in the whole mediation process. it contains specific appeals to the government to defend the interests of specific sectors of the population, with special emphasis on trade unionists and activists, who have been the preferred victims of the action of paramilitary groups and who any rule of law should protect. we regret that the colombian regime, which has always boycotted the many peace processes, has been held to account more severely, and that it has systematically opted for violent repression, always with the support of the united states, which has one of its largest military bases in latin america in that country.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the council to take a decision on the matter. i would also point out that the peace process in colombia has been focused on the victims and not on the parties to the conflict, a remarkable option for being a pioneer. the agreement on the victims of the conflict signed in december 2015 is a key pillar of this peace process, a process that will be all the more resilient the stronger the role of civil society and a process that aims to end violence in all its forms. in this sense, i think that repairing the damage caused by a conflict that has lasted for more than 50 years must be a priority and that the agreements that have been drawn up enshrine exactly this perspective. the european union has indeed made a major contribution to what has been achieved in this process.
‒ we cannot fail to mention the positive aspects of this resolution, in particular the commitment to the defence of peace through a bilateral ceasefire, the renunciation of the use of violence and the call for reconciliation, and thus support for peace negotiations and their continuation. positively, the call for the extension of the process to the eln, the explicit defence of policies that promote equality and development, especially land reform, the defence of the end of the policies of persecution of left groups and trade unions, among others, should also be noted. while it does not clearly hold accountable those responsible for the colombian conflict state terrorism carried out by colombian governments nor clearly demonstrate the social injustice to which the colombian people have been subjected for decades, the resolution essentially advocates the continuation and success of the peace process.
in writing. the agreement reached at cop 21 is important; it is expected to be signed enthusiastically by states and, essentially, to be put into action. in paris i examined in detail the commitment and responsibility shown by the various parties. now it is the duty of all to make what has been established consistent. the identification of the impact of industrial society on climate change is not new. in 1957, oceanographer roger revelle drew attention to the fact that we are subjecting the planet to a large-scale geophysical experiment that has never been attempted and cannot be repeated. basically, industrial society has released into the atmosphere, in a very short period of time, the carbon that has been sequestered by forests for millions of years and that has been the guarantor of life on the planet. something very wrong was going on. but in a business-based society, the political discourse of denial has blocked the need for change. i've heard oil company ceos refer to oil, to fossil fuels, as "solar stored energy", confusing and distracting. quoting pope francis' recent encyclical: "...the social and environmental responsibility of companies is, in most cases, reduced to a series of publicity and image actions".
international inaction in syria, iraq and libya has left yazidis, christians, kurds, shiites, sunnis, amazighs, tubu and other religious and ethnic minorities completely at the mercy of the barbaric violence of daesh and other terrorist organizations. nothing hurt me more than hearing in iraqi kurdistan, young yazidis who had managed to escape from daesh and needed help to recover and to free the more than 4,000 still enslaved by this murderous gang. it is incomprehensible that the european union has not yet taken the initiative to ask the un security council to refer the genocide of the yazidis and other crimes against humanity by daesh to the international criminal court, as the iraqi kurdistan government is asking. but as the christian patriarchs of dohuk and erbil told us, if we want to defend the cultures and pre-islamic minorities in the middle east, we have to help them have the security to stay in their homes and lands, and not to flee to europe. we need to do more and better, linking humanitarian aid and development so that they can afford to stay and survive. but above all we must organise and coordinate ourselves in the fight against daesh and other heads of the terrorist hydra, and against those who support them in our neighbourhood, in our neighbourhood, and also within the european union itself.
mr president, the mutual defence clause invoked by france after the recent terrorist attacks in paris raises the challenge of turning words into action in the common security and defence policy. it is enough to visit one of the front lines against daesh in iraqi kurdistan to see the disgrace of the european countries not even coming together to support the peshmerga fighters. the threat of terrorism has never been more felt by our citizens and globally. it requires that, under the strategic guidance of the high representative, member states adopt specific procedures to implement the mutual defence clause, pool resources and coordinate for the security of citizens and to defend the strategic interest of a world governed by the rule of law. it is useless to declare the obligation of solidarity if our governments do not overcome outdated concepts of sovereignty, if they do not adopt specific procedures to put into practice the mutual defence clause and to advance security and defence policy, which is a crucial instrument, among others, for us to be effective in the fight against terrorism, in europe and globally.
the european union's deliberate strategy in the fight against terrorism is to curb democratic freedom and individual freedoms. insisting on the pilgrim thesis of the false freedom/security dichotomy, supporting a militaristic vision of the alleged fight against terrorism which, instead of weakening, strengthens the logic of hatred and war. the repeated imposition of increased measures that undermine fundamental rights and freedoms, which is always accompanied by the escalation of the militarization of international relations, war and interference and destabilization of sovereign states, feeds the growth of racist, xenophobic and fascist forces and their terrorist action. horrible crimes, such as those committed in paris or those which have been perpetrated for years in various places around the world, call for a policy of peace in international relations and respect for international law, which puts an end to interference and aggression against sovereign states, particularly in the middle east region, which have led to the resurgence of terrorist groups.
we have not been able to protect our citizens against the threat of terrorism and related organised crime, which does not take us by surprise and requires us to work in a coordinated way at european level, because no country can overcome it alone. we are paying the price for the lack of coordination in syria, iraq, libya and the palestinian question. we need to work for peace and security in the neighbourhood and to tackle the sources of funding for terrorism, such as the trafficking of human beings, arms, oil and drugs, including by governments that claim to be our allies, such as saudi arabia, turkey and qatar. we need to coordinate our support for the resistance forces on the ground, such as the peshmerga, and provide more effective aid to displaced people and refugees to reoccupy and rebuild liberated areas, such as sinjar, because it is not with walls and the end of schengen, the closure of borders, that we will stop those who flee barbarism from coming. internally we suffer from disunity and distrust; we resist sharing information against terrorism and taking action against organized crime. we have failed to create an effective european pnr, to counteract recruitment advertising; and with the neoliberal policies that create more unemployment and ghettos, we have actually facilitated the radicalization campaign of europe's own young people who are joining the ranks of the so-called islamic state, within our borders and even within our prisons. in addition to the dismay we display, we have helped terrorists with the wave of xenophobia, which now miserably attacks the refugees fleeing terrorism and war and whom we have an obligation to welcome. we do not need to invent anything; we need political will and a sense of strategic interest in a world governed by the rule of law and human rights. the solutions lie in an intelligent and coherent articulation of our internal and external security policies. what we need is for our governments to work together. this is a european problem and the main weapon we need is unity, european union. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– well, my country has actually volunteered to accept up to 5 000 refugees in these coming months, but they are not coming because the system is not working. but those who have come are, actually, indeed properly supported to be socially integrated. having access to work, for instance, is very important apart from other aspects – to actually work according to the rules in our society. social inclusion is the most important thing, and all the economically liberal policies that have only been fostering social exclusion and discrimination, in particular in communities of migrants, is actually what has been helping the terrorists recruit young people within our borders and to fight both abroad and against us.
mr president, the fight against terrorism begins with the fight against racism, xenophobia and fanaticism, and continues with a ceaseless struggle for democracy, the rule of law and individual freedoms, especially the freedom of movement of all european citizens. the europe in which i believe and for which i grieve is, as georg steiner teaches, a europe which is the daughter of athens and the enlightenment, but also the daughter of jerusalem and the three revealed religions, that is, a europe culturally constructed from the three religions of jerusalem: christianity, judaism and islam. for centuries europe has persecuted and even tried to exterminate many of its citizens, the jews, and now, under the pretext of fighting terrorism, it is preparing to segregate, persecute and expel muslims. mr president, commissioner, minister, the fight against the radicalisation so in vogue must begin with the fight against the intolerance that is dangerously developing within europe.
mr president, the recent terrorist attacks in turkey and burkina faso, following those in 2015, reinforce the evidence not only of the increase in the terrorist threat, but also of its transnational character and its universalist pretensions, which require a global and holistic response in order to prevent and combat it. in the fight against terrorism, the european union must not only strengthen cooperation in the military and security components, but also in the prevention of radicalisation, in the sources of funding, as well as in logistical support and in medical and hospital care for combatants who on the war fronts defend with their own lives our values and our model of civilisation. it is therefore a shame to hear from the mouth of a peshmerga soldier that wounded combatants in need of medical care in europe have to pay out of their own pockets for the treatment they need here in europe, because they do not have sufficient help from the european union. mr president, i once again call on the european union to ensure that the fight against terrorism does not involve the sacrifice of human rights and that refugees are not allowed to become the collateral victims of the terrorists who are actually the ones who are at the forefront of the atrocities being committed.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo (saa) was negotiated between october 2013 and may 2014 and initialled in july 2014. the eea establishes contractual relations which provide for enhanced political dialogue, greater trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. it also includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and aims to create a free trade area. i agree that the saa is a very important first formal step in the eu accession process and the council should adopt the decision to sign and conclude the framework agreement on kosovo's participation in eu programmes, which will strengthen cooperation between kosovo and the eu in different sectors.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. on the one hand, the ratification of a so-called stabilisation and association agreement which, without being ratified by the people's free expression, confirms a process of accession which imposes on a people the loss of sovereignty and subjugation to the neoliberal macroeconomic policies of the european union, the creation of a free trade area, which culminates the process of integration of the balkans and the fragmentation of the territory of yugoslavia. on the other hand, and worse than the first, the continuation of the formalization of the establishment of relations with a territory, as if it were a legitimate country, after the very serious precedent that was opened in the field of international law with the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, and which the eu has sought to legitimize. an illegal decision, which we do not recognize, which created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the us, nato and the eu. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european atomic energy union and kosovo. kosovo has enjoyed a preferential trade regime with the eu since 2000. the eu and kosovo's cooperation policies, especially economic and trade cooperation, must continue if kosovo is to continue its reforms.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement provides for a strengthened political dialogue, greater trade integration and new methods of cooperation in a number of sectors, including respect for democratic principles and human rights, education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. it also includes provisions for the promotion of european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and aims to create a free trade area. i believe that the deepening of relations between the republic of kosovo and the european union and the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement are the first formal steps of great importance for the eu accession process and the european integration path of the republic of kosovo. i am in favour of the conclusion of the eea, so i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in 2000, the european union (eu) launched a policy for the western balkans, which, through stabilisation and association agreements (saas), provides free trade incentives. the commitments undertaken by the parties constitute, on the one hand, a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms in line with eu values and, on the other, a step towards the european integration of the republic of kosovo, which enhances the prospects for peace and prosperity in the balkans and its neighbourhood. the proposed saa establishes the same trade preferences regime that has been in force since 2000 and provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market (except for some agricultural and fisheries products). it should be noted that the european parliament's committee on international trade has given a favourable opinion on the proposal for a council decision containing the provisions on such economic and trade matters and that the committee on foreign affairs endorses it in this recommendation. taking into account the rapporteur's opinion and being sensitive to the spirit of this contractual relationship which, through trade integration, favours political dialogue and strengthens cooperation, i supported the report.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo, signed on 27 october 2015, establishes contractual relations that provide for enhanced political dialogue, greater trade integration and new forms of cooperation. the report, which i welcome, aims to create a free trade area, defines rights and obligations, provides a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms and creates opportunities for investment, growth and business development. it covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, the definition of a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs, and includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ this agreement provides for a strengthening of political dialogue, greater trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers a number of sectors, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. it also includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection. this stabilisation and association agreement is a first formal step of great importance for the eu accession process and the european integration path of the republic of kosovo.
‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo (saa) was negotiated between october 2013 and may 2014 and signed on 27 october in strasbourg. the agreement provides for a strengthening of contractual relations and political dialogue between the european union and kosovo, greater trade integration and new forms of cooperation, covering a wide range of sectors, from education to energy, environmental protection, justice and home affairs. the proposal also introduces provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, with the aim of creating a free trade area. i support this agreement, which i consider to be a key step in the process of kosovo's accession to the eu within the wider framework of the accession of the other balkan countries. in view of the above, i voted in favour.
the european parliament has also expressed its concern at the situation in the balkans, which is a major source of tension for the european union. on the other hand, and worse than the first, the continuation of the formalization of the establishment of relations with a territory, as if it were a legitimate country, after the very serious precedent that was opened in the field of international law with the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, and which the eu has tried to legitimize. an illegal decision, which we do not recognise and which has created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the usa, nato and the eu.
in the first place, the european parliament has to be consulted on the draft treaty on european union. on the one hand, the creation of an aeo, which, without being ratified by popular vote, confirms a process of accession which imposes on a people the loss of sovereignty and subjugation to the macroeconomic policies of the european union, the creation of a free trade area, which culminates the process of integration of the balkans and the fragmentation of the territory of yugoslavia. on the other hand, and worse than the first, it means the continuation of the formalization of the establishment of relations with a territory, as if it were a legitimate country, after the very serious precedent that was opened in the field of international law with the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, and which the eu has tried to legitimize. an illegal decision, which we do not recognise, which has created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the us, nato and the eu. we voted against it.
‒ the developments surrounding the volkswagen scandal, concerning the manipulation of data on light vehicle emissions, once again show that we are facing a european commission gripped by lobbies, in this case the automobile industry lobby, one of the most powerful in the eu institutions, influencing legislative proposals and leaving their indelible mark on them. following a warning from the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) that the volkswagen group had violated pollution standards and recent data showing a large discrepancy between nitrous oxide emissions measured under laboratory conditions and under normal driving conditions, the european parliament approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in this area, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national courts. the purpose of this committee will be to investigate and collect data on alleged failures of the european commission and member states to comply with the obligations imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007. we will follow your work closely and will not fail to intervene so that light can be shed on this case.
in writing. - i have given my approval to the composition of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. the commission of inquiry will be tasked with examining alleged infringements of european rules on emission measurements in the automotive sector.
‒ the ongoing infringement proceedings against directive 2008/50/ec, directive 2007/46/ec and regulation (ec) no 125/2007 of the european parliament and of the council have led to a request for the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry to examine alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in the application of community provisions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. under this regulation, the committee of inquiry is to investigate the alleged failure of the commission to comply with the obligation to review the test cycles used to measure emissions and the alleged failure of the commission and the member states authorities to provide for measures to control and prohibit tampering devices, to introduce tests that reflect real driving conditions and to lay down provisions on applicable penalties, ensuring that applicable penalties are enforced. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal put forward by the conference of presidents on the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automobile sector.
‒ part of the european automotive sector has set a bad example of what the role of companies should be in tackling climate change and pollution in general. a modern society needs responsible businesses that go far beyond simply wealth generation. whether it's environmental or social or economic, it's essential that we go beyond the law. unfortunately, some european companies have not even been able to resist the temptation to break the law. it is now crucial to identify all fraudsters, to confirm the extent of the fraud and to create rules so that this phenomenon does not happen again. i would also like to congratulate my colleagues carlos zorrinho and cláudia monteiro de aguiar on being the portuguese members of this committee of inquiry. i wish you luck in finding the truth and in pointing out new solutions.
‒ the interests and lobbies of the automobile industry are powerful, as the developments surrounding the volkswagen scandal confirm. a technical committee of the european commission proposes to allow euro 6 diesel cars to emit more than twice the previously established limits between 2017 and 2019, allowing a 110% discrepancy between laboratory tests (which the industry manipulates more or less widely) and tests under real conditions. from 2020, this discrepancy could be as high as 50%, i.e. emissions 50% above the previously set limits. it is essential that measurements under real conditions are made as quickly as possible. but it is essential that they move forward in ways that ensure adequate protection of the environment and public health and not the protection of the interests of multinationals against the people and the environment.
‒ the developments surrounding the volkswagen scandal, concerning the manipulation of data on light vehicle emissions, are a clear example of a european commission gripped by lobbies, in this case the automotive industry lobby, one of the most powerful in the eu institutions, influencing legislative proposals and leaving their indelible mark on them. following a warning from the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) that the volkswagen group had violated pollution standards and recent data showing a large discrepancy between nitrous oxide emissions measured under laboratory conditions and under normal driving conditions, the european parliament approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in this area, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national courts. the purpose of this committee will be to investigate and collect data on alleged failures of the european commission and member states to comply with the obligations imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007. we shall be following the work of this committee of inquiry closely, and we shall be intervening so that the blame does not die with it.
‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified the association agreements, which include comprehensive and deep free trade areas, thus opting for greater political and economic integration with the european union and for ambitious reforms in a number of areas, such as democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. i support the intention of these countries and the technical and financial assistance which the union has provided to them, and i condemn the pressure exerted by third countries, such as russia, to undermine the pro-european trajectory. i believe it is vital that the current reform programme be pursued with determination, in particular in the judicial system, the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime, which must not be dissociated from civil society. to commend the participation of these countries in european programmes such as cosme, erasmus+, marie sklodowska-curie and creative europe, thus providing an opportunity to become familiar with the union's policies and working methods.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of human rights, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i believe that these agreements can help to strengthen the commitment of these countries to good governance, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and represent a greater political and economic rapprochement with the european union. i abstained, however, on the split vote on paragraph 31, part 2. i support the position of ukraine in the present trade disputes with russia, which result from the unilateral suspension by russia of the free trade agreement with ukraine and the blocking of the transit of goods from third countries in violation of wto agreements. i believe, however, that future disputes between those two countries should be examined on a case-by-case basis before the european union takes a decision to support them in the wto.
‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified the association agreements (aa), which include deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas), thus opting for greater political and economic integration with the european union and for ambitious reforms in many areas, such as democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. the three countries have been making efforts to ensure that national legislation approximates to eu standards, based on commitments under the agreements. i agree that the success of these efforts depends on many factors, such as a stable political environment, strategic reflection, concrete reform plans and a good use of international financial and technical support.
‒ the dramatic development of the situation in ukraine, resulting from the destabilisation and escalation of violence triggered by the announcement of the suspension of the signing of the association agreement with the eu in november 2013, is in sight. a coup d'état has been carried out, promoted by the most backward sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy with the support of the usa and the eu, which seek to secure the political, economic and military dominance of ukraine by continuing the expansion of nato along the border of the russian federation. this reality represents an increased threat to security and peace in europe and the world. the advance and consolidation of xenophobic, fascist and neo-nazi forces in ukraine, which disregard and trample on rights and freedoms, is extremely serious. all this is omitted from the resolution. the recent decision of the kiev administrative court to outlaw the communist party of ukraine is omitted. the resolution extending to georgia and moldova is another step in the eu's strategy of imperial domination, with the use of association agreements and free trade areas which, under the pretext of so-called 'european integration', are effectively seeking to impose harmful and burdensome economic and political conditions on these countries. we obviously voted against it.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the association agreements and the comprehensive and enhanced free trade areas with georgia, moldova and ukraine. association agreements are essential for consolidating reforms, respecting the rule of law and strengthening economic growth.
‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified the association agreements, which include comprehensive and deep free trade areas, demonstrating their intention to deepen political and economic integration with the european union and to carry out reforms in various areas such as democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. it is important to highlight the efforts of georgia, moldova and ukraine to ensure that their national legal systems are brought closer to european union standards. however, i believe that it is essential to continue with the reform programme, particularly in the areas of the judicial system, the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are fundamental contexts for the socioeconomic development of the countries concerned. this proposal reflects the political, economic and social situation in georgia, moldova and ukraine and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the association agreements (aa) / comprehensive and deepened free trade areas (cftas) concluded with georgia, moldova and ukraine have institutionalised the european aspirations of the signatories, establishing a new framework for contractual relations between the parties. this new generation of agreements includes provisions on future trade relations but does not stop at economic design. in the light of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the european commission has negotiated comprehensive agreements to ensure that the various legal systems of the associated countries are gradually brought closer to eu standards. in this way, through concrete reforms introduced in exchange for community financial support, the approximation of national legislation to the values (good governance, democracy, the rule of law and human rights) enshrined in the treaties is ensured. in this context of cooperation, support for georgia, moldova and ukraine is also defence of the union's values. this resolution reiterates the economic and social assistance already provided for in the aa/zclaa and further confirms support for the territorial integrity of the three countries of the association which have been harmed by the continuing interference, direct or indirect, of russia. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified the association agreements (aa), which include deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas), thus opting for greater political and economic integration with the european union and for ambitious reforms in many areas, such as democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. i welcome the presentation of this report which stresses the importance of the association agreements as well as the progress achieved to date and insists that the aa/acp and their associated programmes should be at the top of the eu's and the three partners' priorities. the report also strongly underlines the support for the territorial integrity of the three countries, calling on the russian federation to end the occupation of crimea and immediately suspend any involvement in the current conflict in ukraine as well as in the latent conflicts in georgia and moldova. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ the efforts of georgia, moldova and ukraine to ensure that national legislation is brought closer to eu standards, based on commitments under the association and free trade agreements, are evident. the success of these efforts depends on many factors, such as a stable political environment, strategic reflection, concrete reform plans and the good use of international financial and technical support. i would remind you that the eu's financial support to all its partners is conditional on concrete reform measures. these countries have freely chosen to establish a deeper relationship with the eu and their choice must be fully respected and not subject to pressure from third parties.
‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine have ratified the association agreements, which include comprehensive and deep free trade areas with the union, thus opting for greater political and economic integration with the european union and for ambitious reforms in many areas, such as ensuring democratic scrutiny of government action, moving towards good governance, the existence of an effective rule of law and the protection of human rights. it should also be noted that these three countries already participate in european programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020 and erasmus, which gives them a very wide range of benefits and facilitates their process of familiarization with eu policies and working methods. i therefore welcome the efforts made by these countries towards european integration and have therefore voted in favour.
‒ the eu's comprehensive and enhanced free trade agreements (cftas) pursued a policy of extending its sphere of economic and political influence to georgia, moldova and ukraine, without taking due account of the intensity of trade relations and the historical interdependence of these countries' economies with those of other countries in the region, such as russia. this imperial policy, coupled with internal problems, increased political instability and contributed to violence and war in ukraine, with devastating effects in moldova and georgia in terms of the well-being of the local population and peace in the region. the suspension of the eu is therefore justified in order to start work on defining new forms of cooperation and relations between the eu and each of its members and the eurasian economic area. we reject the eu's current eastern neighbourhood policy, which is based on a strategy of political and economic domination, putting the interests of the eu's peoples and those countries in the background.
in writing. ‒ for the first time in the union's history, a member state has activated the mutual defence clause provided for in the treaties, which requires all member states to cooperate in defence of a member state that has been attacked. in essence, a mechanism similar in all respects to that underlying nato, but only for the members of the union. the french republic has unfortunately been attacked twice this year on its territory by terrorism, and this clause is therefore activated. the motion points out, and rightly so, that this is an opportunity not only to develop the basis for a defence union but also for european foreign policy to be more than the sum of national policies. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) teu), invoked for the first time by france following the recent deplorable terrorist attacks in paris, and welcomed the efforts and assistance made available by all member states. i abstained, however, on amendment no 1 to paragraph 3 of the text, since the invocation of this clause should not constitute a pretext for the legitimization of military operations which in the past have done nothing positive for the stabilization and promotion of peace and democracy in europe's neighbouring regions.
‒ in november 2015, paris was the scene of several terrorist attacks that killed at least 130 people from more than 26 nations, and since 2004, the eu and its member states have been the target of several terrorist attacks that have killed hundreds and injured several thousand. as a result, the french government invoked, for the first time, officially the mutual defence clause, which obliges the member states to provide aid and assistance to france by all means in their power. i believe that the fight against international terrorism is a priority for the eu and that the pursuit of the principle of solidarity requires action both internally and externally. i take this opportunity to condemn strongly the abominable terrorist attacks perpetrated by daesh and welcome the strengthening of the capacities available in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is not a surprise. you could almost say it follows a pre-written script. the right and social democracy challenge the rhetoric of the fight against terrorism, advocating supranational responses, the federalist way. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas of the environment. the reasons, origins and sponsorship of terrorism and its organizations, the acts of aggression and threatening interference by sovereign countries promoted by the eu, the usa and nato, not a word. this declared fight against terrorism and the attitude of aggression and interference have fuelled the growth of racist, xenophobic and fascist forces and their act of terror. we affirm the imperative need to combat terrorism by developing a genuine peace policy based on an end to the escalation of aggression, particularly in the middle east, and on the defence and effective affirmation of the values of freedom, democracy, respect for the sovereignty and independence of states and peoples. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the mutual defence clause represents solidarity between member states in the face of an external threat, a fundamental principle of the union. in the context of crossborder crime that transcends the borders of sovereignty, i share the view that the european union can only be prepared to face internal and external security challenges if there is genuine solidarity between member states in this area.
‒ the defence clause, corresponding to article 42 (7) teu, is invoked for the first time in the union after the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015. solidarity, mutual aid and assistance between member states are basic principles of the european project, which should not be forgotten, since the fight against terrorism must have a global response. i therefore believe that it is necessary to clarify the practices and guidelines that ensure an effective and clear response whenever a member state invokes the mutual defence clause and the role of the european institutions themselves in this process. i am in favour of this proposal, stressing that the union needs a common security and defence policy that responds to global challenges. bilateral cooperation between member states and international organisations should also be strengthened, building on existing instruments.
‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris, the president of the french republic declared that france is at war. this allocation of 16 november 2015 was followed by the invocation of the mutual defence clause provided for in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, which triggers aid and assistance to the requesting country by all means available to the member states. this unprecedented request was met with ad hoc measures, ad hoc management and ad hoc cooperation, which exposed the absence of practical arrangements and guidelines indispensable to give an effective response to the invocation of the clause. the rapporteur considers that basic and fundamental structures are lacking in the solidarity effort to help france. without them, cooperation and coordination between member states will not be possible. in this context, the report recommends the creation of a permanent civilian-military headquarters for strategic and operational planning in collective defence. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the council and the member states to make progress in establishing a political framework to guide the implementation of the above-mentioned article.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, the eu and its member states have been the target of several terrorist attacks, which have killed hundreds and injured several thousand. on 13 november 2015, paris was the scene of a series of attacks that resulted in at least 130 fatalities from over 26 nations, prompting the french government to officially invoke the mutual defense clause. i voted in favour of this report which strongly condemns the abominable terrorist attacks perpetrated by daexe. member states are obliged to provide assistance and assistance to france by all means in their power, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations. the eu institutions need to be more active in security and defence policy and need to promote the implementation of all the provisions of the security and defence policy enshrined in the treaties. the report also adds that the invocation of the mutual defence clause and the solidarity clause under the treaties is first and foremost a political matter, stressing that the european council and the european parliament are the appropriate forums for debate whenever such clauses are invoked.
in writing. ‒ i cannot but welcome the unanimous support for france expressed by all member states, recalling that any use of force must be in accordance with the charter of the united nations, international human rights law and international humanitarian law. this mutual defence clause was invoked for the first time and the present case will serve as a precedent for its future uses and should also promote the strengthening of security and defence at european level. the invocation of the mutual defence clause and the solidarity clause under the treaties is first and foremost a political matter and the european council and the european parliament are the appropriate forums for political debate whenever these clauses are invoked.
‒ in the wake of the november terrorist attacks in paris, france asked the other eu member states for assistance, invoking the mutual defence clause, which is included in the treaty on european union but has never been used before. the report therefore considers that this request should serve as a catalyst for a thorough debate on the multidimensional nature of security and defence at european level, since the invocation of the mutual defence clause and the solidarity clause under the treaties is first and foremost a political matter, with the council and the european parliament being the appropriate forums for political debate whenever they are invoked. i therefore subscribe to the concerns expressed in the resolution regarding the urgent need to establish practical arrangements and guidelines for the future application of the mutual defence clause, given that terrorism is increasingly a latent threat that does not give way and deserves a full response. i voted in favour.
in writing. the application of article 42 (7) teu is a wholly inappropriate measure in the light of recent events. it is yet another move to turn the european union into a military alliance and could set a dangerous precedent. we would remind you that the application of this article constitutes an obligation to support france militarily in military operations, that is to say, it constitutes a way of justifying and legitimizing military interventions in progress or previously planned. we reject the characterization of the paris attacks as acts of war in order to legitimize the military response. military operations have never been able to contain or eliminate terrorism, but have instead caused more victims and disruption, and worsened the situation of the peoples affected. we therefore call for a policy of combating terrorism in accordance with the rule of law, through police investigation and law enforcement, and we warn that the fight against terrorism is in many cases a pretext for limiting individual freedoms and fundamental rights.
it was no surprise that the right and social democracy spoke in the usual federalist verbiage of consummating supranational responses in the fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas of the environment. the reasons, origins and sponsorship of terrorism and its organizations, the acts of aggression and threatening interference by sovereign countries promoted by the eu, the usa and nato, not a word. this declared fight against terrorism and the attitude of aggression and interference have fuelled the growth of racist, xenophobic and fascist forces and their act of terror. we affirm the imperative need to combat terrorism by developing a genuine peace policy based on an end to the escalation of aggression, particularly in the middle east, and on the defence and effective affirmation of the values of freedom, democracy, respect for the sovereignty and independence of states and peoples. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in the 2015-2017 biennium, portugal is a member of the united nations human rights council. this resolution is therefore of particular importance to us portuguese and presents a set of guidelines on the major challenges in 2016, as well as some ways forward and criticisms. i cannot fail to highlight the challenges facing the right of asylum, the fight against the death penalty and women's rights. i should also like to point out the recommendation that the union itself should defend and promote human rights in a coordinated manner across all its policies. finally, i would remind you that portugal is among the countries which respect and promote fundamental rights on their territory. unfortunately, not all members of this un council do. as the resolution points out, i do not think that is reasonable.
‒ the promotion of respect for human rights, irrespective of race, origin, religion, class, caste, gender, sexual orientation or colour, is an obligation of all states, which have the obligation to respect the fundamental rights of their populations and the duty to take concrete measures to facilitate respect for these rights at national level, as well as to cooperate at international level with a view to eliminating obstacles to the realization of human rights in all areas. i therefore believe that the members of the unhrc should be elected from among states which uphold respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy, based on criteria of human rights performance.
‒ the european union is facing numerous challenges today, ranging from the humanitarian crisis of the wave of asylum applications, to climate change, to the fight against terrorism, which require concerted action and enhanced cooperation from the union. at the unhrc sessions, the european union should lead the process with one voice to address internal and external challenges.
‒ i agree that respect for, and the promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights are part of the legal and ethical acquis of the european union. they are fundamental principles of european unity and integrity and ensure internal and external coherence in the field of human rights in external relations. i would like to stress my dismay at the continuing violations of women's rights, the emergence of violent extremist groups such as boko haram in west africa and is in syria and iraq, and the violence against the most vulnerable. i would also like to stress the plight of refugees and migrants, one of the greatest humanitarian scourges of recent times, created by the exponential increase in the number of people forced to leave their countries because of armed conflict and widespread violence. all countries should safeguard the rights of migrants and refugees in migration policies, with particular attention to marginalized and disadvantaged groups such as women and children.
‒ the united nations human rights council (unhrc) is a part of the supporting body to the united nations general assembly, established to assess the human rights situation in all member states of the organisation. in order to achieve a full understanding of the human rights situation in all member states, the unhrc has a universal periodic review mechanism. the review assesses the situation of the parties, advising the general assembly on the promotion and safeguarding of human rights on the one hand, and formulating specific recommendations to member states, which are intended to effect real change on the ground, on the other. despite the recommendations contained in the universal periodic review, some members of the human rights council are among the most serious human rights offenders. in this regard, and in order to be able to follow up on the unhrc recommendations, the rapporteur urges the european union and its member states to explore ways and means of implementing the unhrc recommendations. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament, which reaffirms the universality of human rights and, therefore, the obligation to enforce them.
‒ this report expresses deep concern about human rights and democratic values (such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion), as well as the fact that the public space for civil society is shrinking and that an increasing number of human rights defenders are being attacked worldwide. the report was voted in favour, as it calls on the eu and the member states to redouble their efforts to put human rights and democratic values at the heart of their relations with the rest of the world, and reiterates the importance of ensuring greater coherence between the eu's internal and external policies.
‒ the members of the united nations human rights council (unhrc) should be elected from among states which uphold respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy. un member states should promote human rights performance-based criteria as a condition for a state to be elected as a member of the unhrc. we are concerned about human rights violations in some of the newly elected unhrc member states. hence the importance of the universality of the universal periodic review (upr) in order to achieve a full understanding of the human rights situation in all un member states. it is also necessary to ensure the participation of a wide range of stakeholders, including civil society, in this review.
‒ this motion for a resolution, to which i am a signatory, concerns the european union's priorities for the un human rights council (unhrc) sessions in 2016, as this document sets out in a way that i consider to be highly relevant the current issues with regard to the full exercise of our fundamental rights. first of all, the importance of the full enjoyment of our civil, political, religious and even economic rights - such as our right to vote, to assemble, to have a press or to have our faith respected; also the importance of protecting women's rights and, above all, the rights of children, the abolition of the death penalty and also migration and the massive volume of refugees currently in transit around the globe, but mainly in europe. although these are topics that are on the agenda, they do not always take the centre stage of political agendas - i therefore consider it absolutely essential to act in defence of these principles at all unhrc meetings. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it of the utmost importance that the uncompromising defence of human rights should be included in the union's external action.
‒ the annual report of the united nations high commissioner for human rights contains very positive aspects such as the points on the economic crisis and its consequences on the peoples, especially those in the 2015 report: increasing inequalities and the political, economic and social exclusion of marginalised groups undermine the dignity and rights of peoples in many states and are largely responsible for the emergence of the above problems and conflicts. economic, social and cultural rights, as well as the right to development, have suffered from austerity policies which, together with corruption, have disproportionately affected the poor and the marginalised. it is therefore time to look at the european union itself, where the arrogant practice of trying to teach the world lessons prevails when, within it, the rights of the people are not respected and democracy is repeatedly disrespected.
‒ the committee on petitions does essential work in the relationship between citizens and the eu institutions. the eu treaties give all european citizens the right to address the european parliament to report on various types of problems they face in their daily lives, provided that the issues raised are within the framework of the european union's activities. i support this annual report, which i consider to be of great importance, as it provides a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions, enabling us to know the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, or the countries or issues concerned, and is an important quantitative tool in evaluating the work of the committee. this tool allows members and european bodies to be closer to citizens and to any misapplication of european law by member states.
‒ according to statistics, in 2014 the european parliament received 2 714 petitions, a decrease of 6% compared to 2 891 in 2013. this annual report aims to provide a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions by presenting statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, or on the countries or issues concerned, which constitute an important quantitative tool in evaluating the work of the committee. the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights. other petitioners seek to make their proposals for the implementation of union policies heard and others still address the european parliament to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against judgments of national courts. others also point to shortcomings in the application of european legislation, either due to faulty transposition of legislation, non-application of community rules or violation of them.
‒ the right to petition is intended, together with the european ombudsman, to deal with cases of maladministration by the eu institutions, or national institutions, in the context of the application of eu law. it often coincides with the simultaneous filing of a complaint with the european commission, which may lead to the initiation of a non-compliance procedure or an action for failure to act. in 2014, 1 887 petitions were closed, of which 1 070 were declared inadmissible. these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation (water and waste management, oil and gas exploration and extraction, and major infrastructure and development projects); fundamental rights (in particular children's rights and the rights of persons with disabilities); the free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations; animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. despite the indisputable correctness of most of the causes underlying many of the petitions, we do not follow up on several of the observations and recommendations contained in the report, nor on some aspects of the philosophy of this instrument.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon confirmed the right to petition the european parliament as one of the pillars of european citizenship and as a fundamental right under article 227 of the treaty. it is important to know and to be aware of citizens' concerns about different eu policies and legislation.
‒ the right to petition the european parliament, already provided for in article 227 of the maastricht treaty, was confirmed as a pillar of european citizenship and as a fundamental right by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is a tool which provides a simple means for citizens to approach the institutions of the union and to submit a complaint or request on any matter relating to their fields of activity. the 2014 annual report aims to summarise and present the work of the committee on petitions by compiling statistical data on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, or on the countries or issues concerned. in the light of the foregoing, i supported the rapporteur's conclusions in my vote, considering them to be an indispensable descriptive and quantitative tool in the evaluation of parliamentary work.
‒ any citizen of the european union or resident in a member state may, individually or in association with others, submit a petition to the european parliament on matters falling within the scope of the activities of the european union and which affect him or her directly. this was a huge opportunity as a result of the lisbon treaty. the annual report on the committee on petitions aims to provide a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee by presenting statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, or on the countries or issues concerned, which are an important quantitative tool in evaluating the work of the committee. according to statistics, in 2014 the european parliament received 2714 petitions, which represents a decrease of 6% compared to the declarations submitted in 2013. in relation to 2013, there were several changes in the list of countries of origin of the petitions in 2014, with spain remaining in the first place. justice was the main subject of the petitions filed during the two years. i voted in favour of this report because of the commitment and quality of the work presented.
‒ the number of petitions received in 2014 amounted to 2714, representing a decrease of around 6% compared to 2013, when parliament received 2885 petitions. 790 petitions were considered admissible and acted upon, 1070 were considered inadmissible, 817 were declared admissible and closed and 37 had their recommendation challenged. the purpose of this annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions is to present an analysis of the petitions received in 2014 and to discuss possible improvements to the procedures and relations with the other institutions.
‒ with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the right to petition the european parliament has emerged as one of the pillars of european citizenship and as a fundamental right enabling citizens of the union to petition the european parliament, either individually or in association with other citizens. this right, which now allows any matter falling within the union's fields of activity and directly affecting it to be reported to this institution, is a key instrument for citizens to express their concerns about the effects of different eu policies and legislation on their daily lives, as well as acting as a proactive mechanism for european citizens' initiative. this report calls on the european commission to respond to the requests for inquiry contained in the petitions within three months, together with the peti commission. it also urges the member states' authorities to participate more actively in their meetings, not only by generating public debate and scrutiny, but also by highlighting the importance of the european citizens' initiative as a new tool for participatory democracy at eu level, with a view to publicly exposing any anomalous, irregular or illegal situations. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the right to petition is intended, together with the european ombudsman, to deal with cases of maladministration by the eu institutions, or national institutions, in the context of the application of eu law. in 2014, 1887 petitions were closed, of which 1070 were declared inadmissible; these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to the year 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation, fundamental rights, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations, animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of people with disabilities. the report points to persistent delays in the processing of petitions, which is due to the limited human resources available in the secretariat. we support any deepening of citizens' participation in the democratic life of the eu. we cannot allow this to hide its profoundly undemocratic character in what is essential and which is the freedom of each country to choose its own path of development.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 1 887 petitions were closed, of which 1 070 were declared inadmissible. these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to the year 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation, fundamental rights, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations, animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of people with disabilities. we understand that the vast majority of the problems raised by the petitioners are just and deserve full resolution. however, we do not recognise the european commission or the european union as having the right to monitor member states, including by imposing sanctions for infringements. on the one hand, the eu is not and has never been an institution that guarantees democracy. on the other hand, many of the policies the petitioners complain about are imposed by the eu itself. we will not belittle or whitewash the role of the eu.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the crackdown on oromo protesters in addis ababa, which has resulted in at least 140 deaths, is just the latest evidence of the brutal policy of silencing any and all opposition or criticism by the ethiopian government: a government that keeps the people under oppressive surveillance, that fabricates terrorism charges to arrest and torture journalists, opponents, students and peaceful protesters; a government that cuts off external funding to human rights and development organisations to force them to close down; that approves mega-projects to forge statistics; that appropriates land to evict communities without respect for their rights, whether in oromia, gambela or ogaden. all this is happening with the support and connivance of the african union, the united states and the european union and its member states, which continue to contribute substantially to the budget for this oppression, on the pretext of ethiopia's role in the stability of the region. for this policy is not sustainable it betrays our values and principles and in fact fosters instability because it leads to injustice and despair and could lead the ethiopian people to a violent insurrection. we need to learn lessons from the arab spring of 2011. we know how to wield our tremendous influence to maintain relations with the government, but really help those who are fighting for democracy and respect for human rights in ethiopia while it is time.
mr president, in the last two months the ethiopian government has murdered 140 peaceful protesters who were protesting against the government's plans to expand the capital by indiscriminately expropriating agricultural land belonging to the country's largest ethnic group, the oromo. this brutal crackdown is the culmination of the persecution that the oromo have been suffering since 2011, and which prompted the high representative federica mogherini to urge ethiopian political leaders to engage in constructive dialogue between the parties and to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in december last year, following the death of 75 students who were also peacefully protesting against this urban plan. following the numerous pressures it has been subjected to, the ethiopian government in power announced last week that it would withdraw this urban plan as a way of restoring social peace in the area. ladies and gentlemen, we must not be fooled by this pretended goodwill on the part of a government which does not shy away from using all the means at its disposal to oppress its citizens. now more than ever, the european union must strengthen all the mechanisms at its disposal to denounce this policy of extermination by the ethiopian government.
mr president, the north korea problem can only have a serious and lasting solution if it is found in the framework of multilateral contributions. it cannot be the european union and/or the united states alone, in conjunction with japan and south korea, or not, but it is necessary to involve all the countries that can make positive contributions to the issue, in particular china and russia, which were important allies of north korea in the past. ignoring or antagonizing china and russia does not help the problem it may even worsen it. the problem of north korea's nuclear weapons cannot be solved by rhetorical proclamations, concrete actions are needed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the president mario draghi for the answers you sent me to the questions i put to you as a signatory to the report of the five presidents. i'm still waiting for the other signatories, the other presidents to respond. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. we hope that the council and the commission will also keep their commitments in the same way. but the truth is that today we have a single banking supervision since november 2014. we have had a single resolution for a month now and all these elements for stabilising the banking union are not operational. and while the single european resolution has not yet taken place, the experience of applying the new european resolution directive aberd has been highly problematic, especially for the weakest economies. today, when in such an economy, banks are asked to raise private capital and at the same time, for the first time, bail-in is carried out, losses are imputed to senior creditors and depositors in other resolution processes, absolutely contradictory tensions are generated in the market. contrary to what was intended in this transitional period, the relationship between banks and the state seems to me more complicated, intense and dangerous than ever before and it is only in the hands of the state, and those fragile states, to contain the brutal systemic risks. this leads me to ask a number of questions, but in particular the following: who's tracking these impacts? is the ecb following you on the systemic risk board? can the capital market union help to tackle the problem of non-performing loans? and who has the global view - i will finish right away, mr president, thank you very much - who has the global view of the banking system of the countries? is competition policy in the hands of the commission or is the ssm supported and coordinated by the european central bank? these are questions that must be answered because a bad start to the banking union could destroy it and that would be fatal to european stability. thank you so much for your time and your patience.
mr president, the european central bank is now the greatest power centre in the european union. the ecb has been taking over, in a devious way and behind the backs of the people, functions which go far beyond what was laid down in its statutes. the ecb combines monetary policy with banking supervision, two clearly conflicting functions. the ecb has long been extending its intervention in the fields of economic governance by using blackmail to dictate to national governments what their policies should be. the national governments are required to do everything possible to obtain access to finance. on the contrary, it is pouring billions of euros into the financial sector and i ask: what is the return? what guarantees does the ecb have that these millions distributed to the banks actually reach those who need them? the legitimate question today is: given this promiscuity, what is the ecb's present mission? promoting a stable macroeconomic framework or ensuring the survival of the financial sector?
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. the negotiations on these agreements, called economic partnerships, actually free trade agreements, have dragged on for over ten years only because african countries have resisted as long as they could to sign them. and they have resisted because these agreements do not promote development, but compromise it. and they compromise it by depriving african countries of essential tax revenues while at the same time forcing them to open their markets to european goods and services, basically opening the door to a new wave of colonization. if these agreements were good for african countries, they would have welcomed them with open arms from the very beginning, which they did not. the truth is that it was only in the face of the european union's unspeakable blackmail and after several years that these countries were forced to give in. what this question reveals is, first of all, the bad conscience of some. as this debate shows, it has had little or no practical effect.
madam president, the fragmentation and alteration of habitats, the overexploitation of natural resources, the introduction and spread of invasive alien species and climate change are some of the key factors that have led to the loss of biodiversity. the european union's biodiversity strategy is far from meeting the challenges we face. not only must the means to deal with the loss of biodiversity be strengthened, but also a set of sectoral policies that affect biodiversity must be changed, rural abandonment must be halted and reversed, agricultural production must be intensified and homogenised, invasive alien species must be prevented and combated, the european union must be given greater responsibility for financing the natura 2000 network by creating a specific financial instrument dedicated to its management, the life programme must be substantially strengthened, at least 1% of the european union budget must be devoted to it. these are some of the directions and measures we have put forward in our proposals for amendments to this report.
madam president, the right-wing policies pursued in portugal, in line with the guidelines and policies of the european union, have contributed to the deregulation of labour legislation, the attack on collective bargaining and the deepening of mechanisms for devaluing and making work more precarious. in portugal, it is the working conditions authority which concludes that the austerity policies imposed by the troika have contributed to the increase in total or partial undeclared work, false service provision, false paid traineeships or false volunteering situations. it points to the use of fixed-term employment contracts and the use of temporary work as a contribution to job precariousness. europe will be no different outside. the fight against precariousness and undeclared work can only be achieved, within the framework of the sovereignty of the member states, through links that guarantee security and stability, the promotion of collective agreements, wages and work with rights, in other words, the opposite of what the european union has been imposing.
madam president, the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work must be a shared effort, for the european union and the member states. undocumented work harms the union economy, jeopardises the financial sustainability of social protection systems, generates unfair competition by distorting market laws, leads to a lack of social and labour protection for workers and often has a cross-border dimension. a large proportion of undeclared workers are particularly vulnerable, including women, migrants and domestic workers. a particularly worrying area in this area is the use of young trainees to replace temporarily absent professionals. under the guise of vocational training, some companies are actually using these young people for non-specialised professional tasks, paying them no pay or much less than the work they have done.
madam president, undeclared work is a social and economic scourge with very deep and complex roots, which seriously harms workers in their social and labour rights, has serious budgetary implications and leads to a reduction in tax revenue and social security contributions. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to create a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the fight against undeclared work, for which the involvement of the social partners is indispensable. but beyond sharing good practices on how member states articulate the prevention and punishment of such abusive situations, it is essential to promote duly reported work and also to combat abuses against workers. i am referring not only to paid activities which become illegal because they are not properly declared to the competent authorities, but also to false selfemployment situations. however, we can only effectively prevent undeclared work situations if we create real incentives for workers and employers to realise that they only have advantages in declaring work done. i would therefore draw the commission's attention to the need to reduce overall taxes on labour and to increase benefits for workers and their families in the form of social assistance. i call on the commission to encourage member states to move towards other forms of tax revenue and to invest in health care, pensions and unemployment support, which will limit the temptation to evade tax through the unregulated employment relationship that has been undeclared work.
in writing. initiatives like this run the risk of becoming monuments to hypocrisy. in recent years, it has been the policies, guidelines and impositions of the european union, translated at national level by the right-wing policies implemented by successive governments, which have led to an increasing deregulation of labour legislation, an attack on collective bargaining, the increasing precariousness of labour relations, the increase in the exploitation of workers. in portugal, it is the working conditions authority itself which confirms the very significant increase in totally or partially undeclared work, false provision of services, false paid traineeships and false volunteering situations following the intervention of the troika (imf-ecb-ec) in the country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's safe to say they do evil and mischief. or "well, preacher brother thomas, look at what he says, don't look at what he does". it is necessary to attack precariousness head on. this means first of all reversing measures recommended and imposed by the eu at national level. it is not enough on its own, but it is a necessary first step.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the commission on keeping its promise, on presenting an ambitious proposal and on taking a path which is a historic change in the way the european union has been dealing with the problem of direct taxation. the commission has played a leading role and has responded to public pressure, as this parliament interprets it, so that taxation is not a factor of relative injustice and a factor of incoherence in the internal market where so much is harmonized and where we control each other also with regard to budgets. and budgets are not just expenses, they're also revenues. i also welcome the commission's concern to provide a european response to the oecd initiative, but i think that europe must move from being a follower of the oecd to becoming a leader in the fight against fraud and tax evasion within the oecd framework, and that is also how i interpret the present proposal. we must go further and the way forward has been written in this parliament's taxe report. the commission recognizes this and i thank the commission for that very fact. in fact, there are still elements, such as the definition of what is a tax haven, what is a permanent establishment, where we would like the proposals to be stronger, but we understand that at this moment it is not yet possible to ask for this. i would also like to stress that parliament expects, and this is also reflected in its taxe text, that the council will take on board this change in philosophy of european policy. we have to go further. the ccctb must be put into practice. the report, country by country, must be made public. we must move forward on dimensions which are the only ones compatible with the internal market and a single currency, and in this respect we regret and regret the absence of the dutch presidency. this is because, as the taxe report says, the member states with a key role in facilitating tax evasion must assume their responsibilities and lead the efforts to strengthen tax cooperation in the european union. let us hope that the dutch presidency will carry out this plan.
mr president, commissioner, despite the good intentions and goodwill, the commission's proposal is still a handful of nothing. the luxleaks scandal and the others that followed it showed one of the biggest injustices of the european project. we have multinationals that evade taxes, billions of euros that are lost every year to the public accounts and that obviously translates into money that is missing in health, in public schools, and that has as its reverse a brutal tax burden on those who work and on small and medium-sized enterprises. that said, i am not against country-by-country reporting, as long as it is public, and i am not against greater transparency, but i would like to ask you, commissioner, when do we start taking concrete action where they really address the abuses that have been committed by multinationals? when will the tax haven issue be taken seriously? when does the definition of permanent establishment become a serious matter? when will we start to take seriously the protection of whistleblowers, through whom we learn of these scandals? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
mr president, it was said today that multinational companies do not pay taxes. in fact, these companies have not paid taxes, not today, but for decades, with the full cooperation of the governments of the countries of the european union. this situation is the result of the process of liberalization of economies and capital movements, the result of the increasingly evident seizure of political power by the power of large corporations. we cannot therefore dissociate this framework of fiscal inequality from the current process of capitalist and profoundly liberal integration of the european union. the tax package presented today is a mere process of intentions whose results we will have to evaluate. nothing is said in this package about the enormous influence of the consultancy industry on governments and the european institutions themselves. it would be interesting if the commissioner could tell us who commissioned the impact study on the public dissemination of the country-by-country report. was it pwc, who also did a study on the country-by-country reports of financial institutions? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. and as regards the register of interested entities, will we be able to scrutinize who are the people hiding behind the instruments and vehicles used to drain profits to tax havens? finally, the question of tax havens. are we going to see the same old movie again, with politically negotiated lists that left the biggest tax havens out, like the city, the netherlands, switzerland, luxembourg? will the tax authorities have the resources? these are questions we ask and we keep tracking.
in writing. i support the european commission for finally adopting this package to combat tax evasion by multinationals in the eu - and i call for surveillance and investigation of large companies and families with privileged access to power, who continue to benefit from tax deals and other opaque schemes to avoid their tax responsibilities. the european commission should, in particular, take an active role in investigating decisions that may involve illegal state aid, in cases such as sonangol, which received tax benefits from the portuguese state of more than one billion euros in 2014 alone! the commission must also require states to ensure fiscal fairness in state budgets so as to mitigate cuts in essential public services and reduce the tax burden on the poor and middle classes by ensuring that more income is collected from those who can afford it - which is not the case in portugal, where the richest families in the country, who should contribute 25% of state revenues to the irs, only contribute 0.5% thanks to tax benefits and exemptions granted in total opacity.
‒ this regulation, commonly referred to as the 'schengen borders code', was adopted in 2006 and consolidates and develops the legislative policy component of integrated border management in the european union. over the years it has undergone six alterations. among the most important is the establishment of common rules on the temporary reintroduction of internal border control in exceptional circumstances, under the so-called 'schengen governance package'. the amendments which i support now merely consolidate the text which has resulted from the amendments to the original regulation, so as to allow it to be better applied and interpreted.
‒ in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, the consultative group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met to examine the proposal resulting from this report. the analysis carried out thus enabled the consultative group to reach the unanimous conclusion that the proposal in question was in fact a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i voted in favour.
in writing. when discussing amendments to the community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) in 2013, we stated: 'the purpose of this report is to amend the 2006 regulation in the light of legal developments and practical experience, and also in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the amendments mainly concern clarification of the definition of the conditions of entry for third-country nationals and the duration of validity of certain travel documents. the amendments also extend the exemption from stamping of travel documents for train and bus crews on international routes, as is already the case for airline crews. this includes measures to train border guards to detect situations of unaccompanied minors and victims of trafficking. we are not following the changes aimed at increasingly harmonizing immigration and border policies, which oblige member states to report on the bilateral agreements they establish under the schengen borders code. nor is there any obligation for member states to inform when 'legal' third-country nationals enter another member state. " although this is a codification, an eminently technical procedure, we voted against it, taking into account our position on the substance of the matter.
in writing. ‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this proposal is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i voted yes.
‒ the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. i am voting in favour of this report, which stresses that the setting of rules for the crossing of borders cannot be done sufficiently by the member states and can be better achieved at union level. to this end, the union shall take the necessary measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, that regulation and its successive amendments do not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective.
in writing. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it by merely codifying the existing texts without any substantive changes. the amendments focus mainly on clarifying the definition, the entry conditions for third-country nationals and the duration of validity of certain travel documents. the amendments also extend the exemption from stamping of travel documents for train and bus crews on international routes, as is already the case for airline crews. this includes measures to train border guards to detect situations of unaccompanied minors and victims of trafficking. regardless of the assessment of these minor amendments, we do not change our previous thinking on schengen. we are not keeping pace with the increasing harmonisation of immigration and border policies, which oblige member states to report on the bilateral agreements they establish under the schengen borders code. nor is there any obligation for member states to inform when 'legal' third-country nationals enter another member state.
‒ this regulation lays down the rules for the control of persons crossing the external borders of the member states of the union. this report, which i voted for, was drawn up in such a way as to ensure full respect for human dignity and to ensure that border control is not only in the interest of the member state at whose external borders it is carried out, but in the interest of all the member states which have abolished control at their internal borders. those measures should continue to contribute to the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, as well as to the prevention of any threat to the internal security, public order and health, and the international relations of the member states.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the compilation of a set of scattered legislation on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders with a view to establishing a community code (schengen borders code). in view of the growing terrorist threat in europe and the international measures taken to combat this escalation of violence, this proposal for a regulation codifies the existing rules on the passage of persons at border controls by means of a preliminary analysis of the risks to internal security and of the threats that may affect the security of the external borders. in an area without internal border controls such as the eu, there is a need for a common response to situations that could seriously affect public policy or internal security, thus allowing for the temporary introduction of internal border control in exceptional circumstances, without jeopardising the principle of free movement of persons. in view of the exceptional nature of this measure (which is of a very technical nature), i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishes the community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code), which has been amended several times. the new regulation voted on today will replace the various acts incorporated in it, merely codifying the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i support the report by mr la via on the strengthening of the fight against heavy metal pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control man-made emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. it aims to reduce annual emissions of the three metals to levels below those recorded in 1990. as the rapporteur points out, the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration. it is within this framework that it is intended to phase out leaded petrol, reduce mercury concentration levels in alkaline batteries and include other mercury-containing products such as measuring devices. the amended protocol sets stricter limit values for dust emissions which need to be transposed by a new directive. i agree with the rapporteur that ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards better protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution, especially as regards heavy metals.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. the convention, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. to date, the scope of the convention has been extended by eight protocols identifying specific measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. in december 2012, the protocol was amended by decisions 2012/5, 2012/6 and 2012/7, the latter two concerning bat, and was subject to ratification by the parties. the amended protocol sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. i therefore welcome the draft council decision.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere. it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of the three metals indicated to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration. the protocol also suggests the inclusion of management measures for other mercury-containing products, including measuring devices. the amended protocol sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. the amendment to the protocol is already covered by eu legislation, but it still needs to be transposed through a new directive that will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others. we voted in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, in particular the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protocol on heavy metals. given that several studies have shown that air pollutants can travel thousands of kilometres before being deposited, it is important that the problems caused by air pollution are addressed at international level. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. the protocol entered into force on 29 december 2003 and has been transposed into eu law through various instruments. a new eu directive is needed to update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of the human environment from air pollution. this convention has created the framework for controlling and reducing harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. this protocol was amended by decisions 2012/5, 2012/6 and 2012/7. the amendment to the protocol is already covered by european union legislation, but it still needs to be transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others. i believe that ratification will make it possible to protect human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere. it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of those metals to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration. the protocol also suggests the inclusion of management measures for other products containing mercury. the amendment to the protocol, already covered by eu legislation, will still have to be transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants, providing for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others. we voted in favour.
‒ several studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can travel many thousands of kilometres before being deposited. it is therefore necessary to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level. the report approves the amendment of the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals under the 1979 convention. it has now been extended by eight protocols identifying specific measures to be taken by the parties concerned to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. it sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation which aims to amend the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, relating to heavy metals. this convention was the first legally binding international instrument that created the framework for monitoring and minimising health and environmental data from air pollution. however, the scope of the convention has been extended by a set of eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by the parties to reduce emissions of air pollutants. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals has been reviewed and amended by decisions 2012/5, 2012/6 and 2012/7. the review, which builds on those decisions, sets out, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain fixed sources, as well as other provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-western europe. the amendment in question is fully in line with existing european legislation and will constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere. it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of the three metals indicated to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration. the protocol sets emission limit values for certain large fixed sources and requires the use of best available techniques (bat). the amendment to the protocol is already covered by eu legislation, but it still needs to be transposed through a new directive that will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others.
in the first place, the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to chemical agents. it has been scientifically proven that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before being deposited. all the more reason for an international approach. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants. in december 2009, the protocol was amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4, the latter two concerning best available techniques. decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 are to be ratified by the parties. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates to the implementation requirements for several substances, restrictions to the updates for several emissions and extends the list of substances affected by the restrictions to total annual emissions and subject to the reporting obligation. a new directive will be needed to update national emission limit values for air pollutants and provide for national annual emission inventories covering persistent organic pollutants. specific derogations and flexible transition timetables for economies in transition should enable all parties to comply with the essential protocol for a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment against air pollution. the convention, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field and established the framework for controlling and reducing the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. to date, the scope of the convention has been extended by eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by signatory parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. these amendments are already largely covered by eu legislation and will be further transposed by a new directive updating national emission limit values for certain air pollutants. the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before being deposited. the problems caused by air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was the first legally binding international instrument in this field, creating a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops). it requires parties to phase out the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdfs) and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs) to levels below 1990 or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the parties shall ensure that operators of major fixed emission sources use best available techniques (bat). the accession of the community to the protocol was approved by council decision 2004/259/ec. the protocol has been transposed into eu law through various instruments and has been amended several times since then. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the amendments to the protocol are already in line with current eu legislation and will be transposed through a new directive updating national emission limit values for certain air pollutants. the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards greater protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of the human environment from air pollution. this convention has created the framework for controlling and reducing harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops). the protocol was amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4. the amendments to the protocol are already broadly covered by eu legislation and will be subsequently transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions covering pops. i believe that ratification will make it possible to protect human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before they are deposited. for this reason, the consequences of air pollution must be addressed at international level. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was the first legally binding international instrument in this field, creating a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants (pops) aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of those pollutants. it requires parties to abolish the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of ddts, hchs and pcbs, and to reduce their total annual emissions of pahs, pcdd/pcdfs and hcbs to below 1990 levels or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the parties shall ensure that operators of major fixed emission sources use best available techniques. the accession of the community to the protocol was approved by council decision 2004/259/ec. the protocol has been transposed into eu law through various instruments and has been amended several times since then. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. this ratification of the 1998 protocol on long-range transboundary pollution from persistent organic pollutants (pops) requires operators of the main fixed emission sources to use the best available techniques; certain waste incineration plants to comply with emission limit values; effective measures to control pop emissions from mobile sources to be taken; and pops to be transported and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner once they have been converted into waste.
in writing. ‒ we all know that air pollutants can travel thousands of kilometres before they are deposited, so tackling air problems must be done within an international framework. the scope of the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has been extended by eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by signatory parties with the aim of reducing their emissions of air pollutants. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants. this protocol has been amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4, the first two of which are to be ratified by the parties. i am convinced that the amendments are fully in line with current european legislation and that their ratification will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution, so i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops). it requires parties to phase out the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdfs) and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs) to levels below 1990 or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the current amendments to the protocol are already largely covered by eu legislation and will be further transposed by a new directive updating national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and providing for national annual emission inventories. the draft council decision lists the texts of the amendments to the protocol by decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 in its annexes. specific derogations and flexible transition timetables for economies in transition should enable all parties to comply with the protocol
‒ eurojust is a key player in european judicial cooperation, working mainly in the field of crossborder organised crime and terrorism. its support to member states lies, inter alia, in the capacity to collect and analyse information and to coordinate cross-border investigations. in this context, eurojust also cooperates with third countries. such cooperation shall, as a general rule, result from its geographical proximity to the union or from its importance for the agency's substantive scope of activities. it is in this context that this cooperation agreement with ukraine was signed. the european parliament, as a co-legislator, gives its political assent to the conclusion of the agreement, the protection of data being guaranteed by the joint supervisory body and their usefulness and legality by the eurojust college.
‒ this document concerns the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. i am in favour of the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with ukraine, as it supports and intensifies the fight against serious forms of crime and also contributes to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation in ukraine, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the cooperation agreement to include the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment by ukraine of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. among other things, these initiatives are part of a security drift that increasingly puts fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. the worsening situation in ukraine and the deep hypocrisy and complicity of the usa, the eu and nato in the face of the wave of provocations, incitement to violence, violations of freedoms and rights and crimes perpetrated by ultra-nationalist and fascist forces in that country, which have been the victims of citizens who oppose the forces and the coup power, should also be stressed. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to include a new category of products, namely the 'closed-loop' type. we voted against it.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for the adoption of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. i believe that closer and more effective cooperation between eurojust and ukraine is essential in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe. i voted in favour of this report in favour of the fight against serious crime, and it also contributes to strengthening judicial cooperation, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
‒ this draft agreement provides for operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine under the pretext of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the free and sovereign cooperation between the national states is thus being overtaken by the creation of supranational control mechanisms, initiatives which are part of a security drift which increasingly puts fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. the agreement was concluded at a time when the situation in ukraine is worsening, in the face of the wave of provocations, incitement to violence, violations of freedoms and rights and crimes perpetrated by ultra-nationalist and fascist forces in that country, of which citizens who oppose the forces and the coup power have been the victims, in the face of the deep hypocrisy and complicity of the usa, the eu and nato. it is urgent to denounce and vehemently reject this reality, which is not in keeping with the present proposal. by the aforementioned vote against.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. this document concerns the proposal for the adoption of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this agreement provides for detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust by ukraine and the exchange of information, and i voted in favour of it.
‒ i consider that operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine is essential to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to promote greater judicial cooperation in europe. with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, including in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, this agreement includes detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, in particular on the control of cross-border data flows and the exchange of various types of information. in view of the assumptions contained in this cooperation agreement, i shall vote in favour of this report.
‒ this draft agreement provides for provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment by ukraine of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the free and sovereign cooperation between national states is thus overtaken and the creation of supranational control mechanisms over them is advanced. these initiatives are part of a security drift which is increasingly putting fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. moreover, as regards the worsening situation in ukraine and the deep hypocrisy and complicity of the usa, the eu and nato in the face of the wave of provocations, incitement to violence, violations of freedoms and rights and crimes perpetrated by ultra-nationalist and fascist forces in that country, of which citizens who oppose the forces and the coup power have been victims, there is an urgent need to denounce and vehemently repudiate what is not in keeping with this proposal.
‒ eurojust is a key player in european judicial cooperation, working mainly in the field of crossborder organised crime and terrorism. its support to member states lies, inter alia, in the capacity to collect and analyse information and to coordinate cross-border investigations. in this context, eurojust also cooperates with third countries. such cooperation shall, as a general rule, result from its geographical proximity to the union or from its importance for the agency's substantive scope of activities. it is in this context that this cooperation agreement with montenegro was signed. the european parliament, as a co-legislator, gives its political assent to the conclusion of the agreement, the protection of data being guaranteed by the joint supervisory body and their usefulness and legality by the eurojust college.
‒ this document concerns the proposal for the adoption of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. i am in favour of the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with montenegro, as it supports and intensifies the fight against serious forms of crime and also contributes to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
‒ this report seeks the approval of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, under the pretext of intensifying judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this draft agreement provides for provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment by montenegro of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the creation of supranational control mechanisms is taking the place of free and sovereign cooperation between states. these initiatives are part of a security drift which is increasingly putting fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. the possible accession of montenegro to nato the accession proposal was submitted in december 2015 is an inseparable process of the militarization of the eu and the expansion of the influence of this organization in the balkan region. for the record, our vote is against.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for the adoption of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. i believe that closer and more effective cooperation between eurojust and montenegro is essential in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe. i voted in favour of this report in favour of the fight against serious crime, and it also contributes to strengthening judicial cooperation, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
‒ this draft cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, under the pretext of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, provides for operational cooperation provisions such as the secondment by montenegro of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. in other respects, these initiatives are part of a security drift based on supranational control mechanisms, which increasingly compromise fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees. under the guise of combating crime and terrorism, this proposal is part of the process of european capitalist integration into the political, economic and judicial systems, as well as in foreign and security policy. the country's foreseeable accession to nato, which is part of the eu's militarization and the expansion of its influence in the balkan region, will also be part of this process. by the aforementioned vote against.
‒ this document is nothing more than a proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime such as organised crime and terrorism. i voted in favour of this agreement because it seeks, among other positive aspects, to ensure the protection of individuals with regard to the automated processing of personal data when they are collected and processed.
‒ this report concerns a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime such as organised crime and terrorism. the rapporteur's proposals provide for operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, with montenegro seconding a liaison officer to eurojust, and for the exchange of information, including personal data. montenegro is a party to the council of europe convention of 28 january 1981 for the protection of individuals with regard to automated processing of personal data in connection with the collection and processing of data and its protocol on supervisory authorities and cross-border flows of data. in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe, it seems clear to me that there is an operational need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. in view of the content of the clause relating to the conclusion of this agreement and its objective of intensifying support for and the fight against serious forms of crime, thus contributing to strengthening judicial cooperation, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this draft agreement provides for provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment by montenegro of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the centralisation, structuring and strengthening of bodies such as eurojust, which escapes democratic and judicial control, goes beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the free and sovereign cooperation between the national states is thus overtaken by the creation of supranational control mechanisms over them. among other things, these initiatives are part of a security drift that increasingly puts fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. the commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, but it is not a step in the right direction. the possible accession of the country to nato the accession proposal was submitted in december 2015 , integrated into the militarization of the eu, and the expansion of influence in the balkan region, are also recalled.
‒ the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland has forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate to waive the immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament, in connection with a traffic offence, on the grounds that he did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations. it follows from the circumstances of the present case that the alleged offence and the subsequent criminal proceedings clearly have nothing to do with mr iwaszkiewicz's office as a member of the european parliament and i therefore agree with the rapporteur's request for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. here are the facts: the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 7 september 2014, when driving a vehicle, mr iwaszkiewicz did not respect the speed limit for urban agglomerations of 50 km/h when driving the vehicle at a speed of 79 km/h. the inspectorate-general also states that, in response to a notification sent to the owner of the vehicle, mrs m. iwaszkiewicz, she confirmed that the member was the driver of the vehicle on the date in question. the facts of which he is accused constitute an infringement of article 92 (a) of the polish code of civil procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. apart from other considerations that may be made, the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the political activity of the member. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. the request fulfils the requirements for the application of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union: the member's immunity shall be waived where the offence is not related to the performance of the duties of a member and where there is no suspicion of fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a serious and well-founded suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. the alleged breach on which the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is based has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member. we voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity by express vote.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of the european parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate to waive the immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, in relation to a traffic offence. the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that at 23.46 on 21 august 2014 in the town of rawicz, mr iwaszkiewicz was recorded by a traffic control camera while travelling at a speed of 94 km/h in a zone with a speed limit of 60 km/h. this report approves the decision to waive the immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz and instructs its president to forward this decision, together with the report of its committee responsible, to the relevant authorities of the republic of poland and mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz without delay.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. this is a request made by the prosecutor general of the republic of poland, which relates to a case related to a traffic offence where, allegedly on 7 september 2014, the member of parliament did not respect the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations which is 50 km/h by driving the vehicle at a speed of 79 km/h. it is therefore an offence concerning conduct allegedly committed outside your mandate as an mep. in the absence of any reason to doubt the legitimate intention underlying this legal action, and in view of the fulfilment of the conditions set out in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i consider the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity to be appropriate and, in that regard, i voted in favour.
‒ the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity.
in writing. ‒ in this case, the request for waiver of mr iwaszkiewicz's immunity was made on the basis of an alleged infringement consisting in exceeding the speed limit applicable to urban agglomerations, since the vehicle he was driving was recorded by a traffic control camera when travelling at a speed of 94 km/h in an area with a speed limit of 60 km/h. it follows from the circumstances of the present case that the alleged offence and the subsequent criminal proceedings clearly have nothing to do with mr iwaszkiewicz's office as a member of the european parliament and i therefore agree with the rapporteur's request for the waiver of immunity.
‒ this report, like others voted on previously, deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. here are the facts: the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that on 7 september 2014, when driving a vehicle, mr iwaszkiewicz did not respect the speed limit for urban agglomerations of 50 km/h when driving the vehicle at a speed of 79 km/h. the inspectorate-general also states that, in response to a notification sent to the owner of the vehicle, mrs m. iwaszkiewicz, she confirmed that the member was the driver of the vehicle on the date in question. the facts of which he is accused constitute an infringement of article 92 (a) of the polish code of civil procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. apart from other considerations that may be made, the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. the request fulfils the requirements for the application of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union: the member's immunity is waived where the offence is not related to the performance of the duties of a member and provided that there is no suspicion of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a serious and well-founded suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. the alleged breach on which the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is based has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at prejudicing the political activity of the member. we voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity by express vote.
‒ also on the case of mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, endorses the report which, in addition to stating that the alleged infringement has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member, also does not concern opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties, within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. this report therefore approves the decision to waive the immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
‒ like the previous request, we are also faced with a request from the prosecutor general of poland to request the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of mp robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, in relation to an alleged road traffic offence committed on 21 august 2014, for driving at a speed exceeding 94 km/h when the limit in the zone was 60 km/h. now, as this is conduct allegedly committed outside his mandate as a member of the european parliament and as there is no reason to doubt the legitimate intention underlying this road traffic offences procedure, i have voted in favour of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, having regard to the verification of the assumptions listed in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
‒ the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of czesław adam siekierski as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity.
in writing. - mr florian philippot is accused by the government of a third country, namely qatar, of having defamed that country during a radio broadcast by insinuating that qatar was financing terrorism. for a member of the european parliament, immunity covers not only the views expressed by the member in official meetings of the parliament but also the expression of his views elsewhere, for example in the media. however, the public expression of opinions on the foreign policy of the european union and of third countries is part of the duties of a member of the european parliament, and i agree that the conditions for the waiver of mr philippot's immunity are not met.
‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot, a member of the national front. here are the facts: the mp is accused by the government of qatar of having defamed that country by suggesting, in a radio show and a television show (both in january 2015), that qatar finances terrorism. the french authorities have requested the waiver of immunity following the criminal proceedings brought by a third country. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the constitution of the french republic, it is prohibited to bring any civil or criminal proceedings against a member of parliament for opinions expressed in the performance of his duties. article 8 of protocol no 7 provides that 'members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties'. it is clear that this principle also applies in the case of criminal proceedings for defamation against a member of parliament by a third country. it is understood that the intention underlying the criminal action is to harm the political activity of this member. we voted in favour of the report rejecting the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of florian philippot, which decides not to waive the immunity. the application does not meet the requirements for the application of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union: the facts are related to the performance of the duties of a member, since there is a link between the statements made and parliamentary duties.
‒ having regard to the provisions of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the french constitution, which prohibit any civil or criminal action against a member for opinions expressed in the exercise of his duties, and considering that the immunity of a member of the european parliament covers not only the opinions expressed by the member in official meetings of parliament but also the manifestation of his views anywhere else for example in the media, where there is 'a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary duties' and that the rapporteur considers that the conditions for the waiver of the immunity of mr philippot are not met, this report deserves my vote in favour.
‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr florian philippot. the member of parliament is accused by the government of qatar of having defamed that country by suggesting, in a radio programme broadcast on 9 january 2015 and in a television programme broadcast on 19 january 2015, that qatar finances terrorism. the french authorities have requested the waiver of immunity following the criminal proceedings brought by a third country. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the constitution of the french republic, it is prohibited to bring any civil or criminal proceedings against a member of parliament for opinions expressed in the performance of his duties. in general terms, the purpose of parliamentary immunity is to allow the legislature to exercise its constitutional functions without undue external interference, especially from the executive. in the light of the foregoing, the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity should not be granted.
‒ the french judicial authorities have requested the waiver of the immunity of florian philippot, member of the european parliament, following a criminal action brought by a third country. florian philippot is accused by the government of qatar of having defamed that country during a radio broadcast on 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast on 19 january 2015, by insinuating that qatar financed terrorism. the immunity of a member of the european parliament covers not only the opinions expressed by the member in official meetings of the parliament but also the expression of his views, for example in the media, where there is 'a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary functions'. that is why this report, which i voted in favour of, decides not to waive florian philippot's immunity.
‒ the french ministry of justice requested a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr florian philippot on 2 september 2015 in the context of a defamation case pending before the court of first instance of nanterre. the request follows a criminal action brought by a third state qatar , which accuses the member of parliament of having defamed that country during a radio broadcast on 9 january 2015, by referring to that country as financing terrorism. however, the french constitution states that "no member of parliament may be prosecuted, investigated, arrested, detained or judged for opinions or votes he or she has given in the performance of his or her duties". and article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union prohibits any civil or criminal action against a member for opinions expressed in the performance of his duties. in view of the above, the conditions are met for mr florian philippot's parliamentary immunity to be maintained, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ florian philippot is accused by the government of a third country, namely qatar, of having defamed that country during a radio broadcast on 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast on 19 january 2015, by insinuating that qatar financed terrorism. for a member of the european parliament, immunity covers not only the views expressed by the member in official meetings of the parliament but also the expression of his views elsewhere, for example in the media, where there is 'a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary functions'.
‒ undeclared work is a phenomenon that seriously harms working conditions, fair competition and public budgets in the member states. the commission has proposed to establish a european platform which should improve cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work at eu level by bringing together a number of national law enforcement bodies involved in the fight against undeclared work. although the main responsibility for tackling this problem lies with the member states, there are cases where cooperation between the different entities at national level is not sufficiently structured or does not prove to be effective, and this new platform should be an added value not only to prevent and deter undeclared work but also to regulate it. i support the pirinski report, as i believe that action at eu level can help member states to combat undeclared work more effectively, while also contributing to tackling the challenges associated with professional mobility in a positive and constructive way at eu level, while preserving the free movement of workers as one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu.
‒ undeclared work is a serious problem in europe. by 2012, it will have accounted for 18.4% of eu gdp and the negative effects are felt by workers, businesses and governments. undeclared work is legal work that is not properly declared to the competent authorities. from unfair competition to lost tax revenues and social security contributions, there are many negative consequences of undeclared work, and workers are left with their basic social and labour rights reduced. so i agree that the platform is an opportunity to analyse data and share good practices, especially in a cross-border undeclared work context.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the creation of an eu-wide platform to combat undeclared work, as any paid activity that is lawful but not declared to public authorities. this platform aims at enhanced cooperation between member states of their structures and authorities for labour inspection, health and safety conditions, financial taxation, services for foreigners, etc. , by sharing information and best practices, developing a database and common principles and methodologies, as well as training actions. undeclared work (together with fake self-employment and other forms of precarious employment) has repercussions on the financial and ethical structure of states, accounting on average for 18% of gdp in the eu. workers involved in these schemes are more vulnerable in their rights such as protection against accidents, unemployment or pension guarantee , so the establishment of strategies to combat the phenomenon is essential and is understood as positive. however, there are aspects of the architecture of this platform that merit our disagreement, including the use of data and that may jeopardize the freedoms of individuals. the relevance of a formal structure to these objectives is also questioned, despite the importance of cooperation in this and other contexts.
‒ undeclared work or false selfemployment has so far been dealt with sporadically and in an uncoordinated manner. in this regard, the creation of a european platform will provide the necessary means for enhanced and more effective cooperation between states in combating labour law offences, tax evasion and breaches of social security requirements. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
‒ i support the creation of the european platform to strengthen cooperation in the fight against undeclared work, given that it is harmful to the union's economy, creates unfair competition, undermines the financial sustainability of the union's social models and results in a growing lack of social and labour protection for workers. the platform, in addition to tackling undeclared work, will also address falsely declared work, including false self-employment. i agree that undeclared work has serious implications for the workers affected, who are forced to accept precarious and dangerous working conditions, very low wages, serious violations of their labour rights and considerably reduced protection under labour law and social protection, which deprives them of adequate social benefits, pension rights and access to health care, as well as opportunities for skills development and lifelong learning. i believe that the 'platform' will provide better working conditions, promote integration into the labour market and foster social inclusion. close and effective cooperation between member states is essential to implement the fight against undeclared work.
‒ undeclared work has repercussions on the financial and ethical structure of states and workers involved in these schemes are more vulnerable in their rights. the establishment of strategies to combat this phenomenon is essential and positive. the report overlooks that it is right-wing policies, implemented at national level under the guidance of eu policies, which have contributed to the deregulation of labour legislation, the attack on collective bargaining and the deepening of mechanisms for devaluing and precariousness of work. it omits that austerity policies have contributed to the increase in totally or partially undeclared work, false service provision, false paid internships or false volunteering situations. the architecture of this platform has a tendency towards the standardisation of methodologies and legislation, which suggests that decision-making will be more prevalent at the supranational level, thus compromising national sovereignty. the fight against precariousness and undeclared work can only be achieved, within the framework of the sovereignty of the member states, through links that guarantee security and stability, the promotion of collective agreements, wages and work with rights, in other words, the opposite of what the european union has been imposing. for the reasons stated, we abstained.
‒ this report concerns the decision of the european parliament and the council on the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. undeclared work is one of the most worrying and complex problems facing the eu today and urgent action is needed to mitigate the extremely negative consequences of this and the serious losses to member states' budgets and social security systems. this platform aims to improve cooperation between member states' authorities to prevent and deter undeclared work and to alert citizens, through the exchange of best practices, analyses and opinions. i considered that joint action by the member states and the social partners, together with other stakeholders (including at regional level), in interaction with the eu institutions and capacities, was essential and indispensable, and therefore i voted in favour of this report, as only through a joint and concerted position can a whole complex set of challenges facing the eu in this field be successfully overcome.
in writing. ‒ this platform aims at enhanced cooperation between member states of their structures and authorities for labour inspection, health and safety conditions, financial taxation, services for foreigners, etc. , by sharing information and best practices, developing a common database, principles and methodologies, and training actions. this platform shall be coordinated by the commission. it also provides for the participation of partners, including employers' and workers' representatives. however, there is a tendency in the architecture of this platform to standardize methodologies and legislation, to use data that may jeopardize the freedoms of individuals, or to override the importance of supranational decision-making over national sovereignty. we also question the relevance of a formal structure to these objectives, despite the importance of cooperation in this and other contexts.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and deterring undeclared work, also considering this phenomenon, accentuated by the current crisis, particularly harmful, as austerity measures lead to the resurgence of parallel economies, and also believing that a coordinated approach at eu level to understand the causes and combat informal work could contribute to strengthening workers' rights and protection, increasing social security funding and strengthening labour standards. on the other hand, given that underemployment continues to characterize the situation of women in european labour markets, any proposal which aims to contribute to achieving the great objective of 75% employment by 2020 and, even more so, the goal of full employment naturally has my support. although the eu platform is aimed at law enforcement authorities, i believe that the needs and consequences for the undeclared worker himself, whether male or female, cannot be ignored, and authorities must devote special attention to their working conditions and employment inclusion for all.
‒ the european target of halting biodiversity loss was not met in 2010. the eu responded by drawing up a new strategy in 2011, with heads of state and government setting the central objective of ending biodiversity loss and the deterioration of ecosystem services, restoring them, as far as possible, by 2020 and stepping up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity. according to 2015 figures, we are far from achieving the proposed targets, and political will is needed to put biodiversity at the top of the agenda. i support the demesmaeker report, because i believe that more measures are needed to protect biodiversity, to build a smart, sustainable and environmentally conscious europe, and that member states should be more effective in implementing european environmental legislation.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is under enormous pressure, globally and in europe. species are going extinct at a mind-boggling rate because of human activity. habitat changes, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of biodiversity loss. the loss of biodiversity is particularly harmful and entails losses for nature, for humanity and for the economy: it threatens essential ecosystem services and compromises the earth's natural capacity to respond to new challenges. biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, and i agree with the call for greater political will to genuinely end biodiversity loss.
in writing. the goal of halting biodiversity loss failed in 2010. the 2011 strategy set a new global goal: to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of "ecosystem services", and to restore them "to the extent possible by 2020". in 2015, it became clear that without significant additional efforts, the eu will once again fail to achieve its 2020 targets. the report calls for better enforcement of the relevant legislation to halt biodiversity loss, in particular the habitats and birds directives (rejecting their revision and weakening them). a major focus is on the agricultural and forestry sectors. these are proposals for additional measures to the commission and the member states to halt biodiversity loss. we have tabled more than 20 amendments to the report. some of them were accepted. but the report lacks a different approach and a background. it is necessary to assume that only by changing the production model, by using natural resources responsibly and by transforming society, which respects all living beings as part of a whole, will we have a strategy that meets the objectives it sets out to achieve. it is not enough to paint capitalism green, to make the world a better and more habitable place for all living things.
‒ the nature directives are important milestones in nature policy, not only at eu level but also at international level. this mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy aims not only to strengthen the measures and programmes implemented, particularly with regard to the birds and habitats directives, but also to extend them to other strategic areas of the environment. i voted yes.
‒ i voted in favour of the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. it is developed around six specific objectives and assumes biodiversity loss as a political priority. the role of the different national, local and regional actors in this process is crucial to ensure that the proposed targets are met through concrete actions.
in writing. ‒ the loss of biodiversity has become alarming. species are disappearing at a dizzying rate; habitat changes, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main drivers of biodiversity loss. i argue that biodiversity is paramount to our health and well-being as well as to economic prosperity. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for greater political will to genuinely address biodiversity loss as a political priority and for a multilateral approach in which regional and local actors have a special role to play. i am in favour of better enforcement and monitoring of existing legislation to stop the loss of biodiversity, which must be seen as a real european objective. i also agree with the rapporteur that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe and that we need more political will to put a genuine end to biodiversity loss. i would like to highlight the importance of this issue for eu citizens, as demonstrated by the 'nature alert' campaign, in which half a million citizens called for the observance and better enforcement of nature protection legislation.
‒ the objective of halting biodiversity loss failed in 2010. the 2011 strategy set a new global goal: to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of "ecosystem services", and to restore them "to the extent possible by 2020". in 2015, it became clear that the eu will not be able to achieve its 2020 targets without significant additional efforts. this report calls for better enforcement of the relevant legislation - notably the habitats and birds directives (rejecting their revision, weakening them) - and proposes additional measures to the commission and member states to halt biodiversity loss. a great deal of attention is given to the agricultural and forestry sectors. many amendments were proposed to the report, some of which were considered. however, there remains another approach and a background to the report which assumes that only by changing the production model, by using natural resources responsibly and by transforming society, which respects all living beings as part of a whole, will we have a strategy that meets the objectives it proposes.
‒ biodiversity, the unique variety of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, of which humanity is also a part, has immeasurable intrinsic value and is under enormous pressure, globally and in europe, as species are becoming extinct at a staggering rate and largely due to human activity. habitat change, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of biodiversity loss which is particularly harmful and entails losses for nature, for humanity and for the economy. the limits and capacity of the planet are being exceeded and this is necessarily triggering irreversible changes. the european objective of halting biodiversity loss was not met in 2010, and the eu responded by developing a new strategy in 2011. the heads of state and government have set the central objective of ending biodiversity loss and the deterioration of ecosystem services, restoring them as far as possible by 2020 and stepping up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour of this mid-term review.
‒ biodiversity has in itself an invaluable intrinsic value and must therefore be protected for the benefit of present and future generations. the progressive trend of biodiversity loss is alarming and urgent political priority needs to be given to environmental issues, while not neglecting the crucial role of regional and local actors in the process, with a view to meeting the eu biodiversity targets. in europe, close to a quarter of wild species are threatened with extinction and many of our ecosystems are severely degraded, causing enormous environmental, territorial, social and economic damage to the eu. i therefore believe that it is essential to promote greater public awareness and to encourage greater investment in these areas, particularly in terms of the preservation and conservation of biodiversity. i have voted in favour of this report because it is a matter which deserves special attention and care and because i agree with the measures put forward by the rapporteur.
the preservation of biodiversity is a concern that must be present in all union policies with a direct or indirect impact on the terrestrial and marine environment. to achieve this, we must ensure an approach that includes all relevant actors and sets clear targets. habitat preservation or genetic conservation are examples of objectives that require strong collaboration between science, industry and citizens, and the ideal conditions for this to occur effectively need to be promoted. the evaluation of the european biodiversity strategy is an opportunity to correct where necessary and to assess what needs to be done. despite some positive developments, the data available also show that more needs to be done and more urgently to avoid losses to nature that may become irreversible. it is necessary to strengthen the means at our disposal for better implementation, to ensure that all sectoral policies incorporate biodiversity objectives and to rethink new areas of action to avoid fragmentation and to enhance the pursuit of these objectives.
‒ the european objective of halting biodiversity loss was not achieved in 2010. so the heads of state or government, by drawing up a new strategy in 2011, set a new global target to halt biodiversity loss and degradation of 'ecosystem services', to restore them 'as far as possible by 2020', and to step up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity. in 2015, it became clear that without significant additional efforts, the eu will once again fail to achieve its agreed biodiversity targets in 2020. the report therefore focuses on the target-by-target biodiversity strategy, calling for better implementation of all relevant legislation to halt biodiversity loss, mainly through the habitat and birds directives. the report opposes any revision of the nature directives as this could jeopardise the implementation of the biodiversity strategy and states that the ongoing refit review of the nature directives should focus on improving their implementation and enforcement, proposing additional measures that the commission and member states should take into account to halt biodiversity loss.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy because it agrees that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, and because it calls for greater political will to genuinely end the loss of biodiversity as an essential measure for nature itself and for the health and well-being of our children and grandchildren. the committee also agrees with the rapporteur that the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure (ten-t) could create a win-win situation for nature and the economy; advocates a european framework for preventing the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services; calls for the commission to develop specific criteria for the 'natural capital financing facility' which should ensure that projects produce tangible positive results for biodiversity; by arguing that the decline in bee numbers requires more research and action, in establishing the link between health and biodiversity; and finally by believing that nature-based solutions can make a significant contribution to addressing challenges such as climate change.
madam president, it is the policies of interference and aggression of the usa, nato and the european union that are at the root of the conflicts in the middle east and north africa. policies which do not hesitate to finance and promote extremist forces, to conclude multi-million dollar arms sales contracts with dictatorships such as saudi arabia, with a view to economic and geopolitical domination of those regions. this is the underlying reason for the mass exodus of millions of people who come to the european continent fleeing hunger, poverty, war and death. i would urge this parliament to defend human rights and i would condemn without reservation the response to this reality. the walls, the fascist legislation humiliating refugees, the concept of a fortress europe, the funding of neighbouring states to contain the flow of refugees into genuine concentration camps, are the hallmark of the brutality and inhumanity of the european union. those who manage to survive such solidarity are left with miserable reception conditions that precede a forced repatriation. history will condemn those who now remain silent or support these policies.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i have said from the beginning of this refugee crisis that the union is required to act on two different levels: one more immediate, the other longer term, one to deal with the emergency, the other to get to the root of the problems. it is not by announcing legislative measures of far-reaching impact that we deal with emergencies. that's how it was with search and rescue operations. the states were initially reluctant to respond and only when confronted with the tragedies in the mediterranean did they grant more support. the same is now true of schengen. the emergency relocation mechanism remains weak, the hot spots in greece and italy still lack the necessary resources, return operations still do not take place and, if that were not enough, there is also a proliferation of isolated and selfish national measures. without an immediate response to the urgency, it is the states, not the refugees, who are putting schengen in danger. of course, reintroducing internal border controls is a possibility for member states, but these are temporary measures, they do not solve any problems. the free movement in the schengen area has always been countered by reinforced common external borders. the new schengen evaluation mechanism, which we approved in 2013 and which was recently used in greece, has shown that the union has the capacity to identify problems, but as this crisis makes clear, the union needs instruments to respond to those problems when member states are unable to do so. frontex should therefore be strengthened.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, i leave you with a very simple recipe for solving the refugee problem, a call: respect the values of the european union, practice the de facto solidarity achieved through concrete actions that robert schuman spoke of in his famous declaration of 9 may 1950. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but solidarity does not mean just receiving, solidarity also means giving, and it is unacceptable that member states which receive billions from the european union budget, hundreds of millions, are not able to resolve this issue after giving a penny. in the face of this problem we have, i leave you with a few questions: is there a member state that refuses to contribute? are the amounts for each member state defined? can this support be extended to jordan and lebanon? who will monitor and follow the execution on the ground? it is important to act with transparency, with credibility and before it is too late, to act without populism, radicalism and national selfishness.
mr president, last thursday i was proud to be portuguese. the national parliament, by a right-left unanimity, rejected the new danish law to confiscate valuables from refugees and delay family reunification. these policies not only remind us of an ominous past, but they play directly into the hands of the terrorists from whom refugees flee. portugal has been ready and waiting for months to receive refugees, but they are not arriving because the relocation system is not working. hotspots in greece and italy are not properly equipped months after they were announced. let us not be fooled, we can only tackle the crisis if we act together at european level. destroying schengen will not bring more control of our borders or fewer refugees, only more confusion and misery and will further benefit the smugglers. european action means not tolerating ministers who shame us by suggesting that others push or drown refugees who arrive on our shores, ministers who draw up laws to criminalise ngos and volunteers who assist refugees, ministers who turn a deaf ear to the alarming news of thousands of refugee children missing at the hands of traffickers. we cannot, finally, allow our governments to continue to fuel the business of smugglers and the clandestine influx of refugees by refusing to open up legal and safe channels to process asylum applications and protect the refugees we can take in.
in writing. the strength of our convictions is tested in the moments of greatest difficulty. unfortunately, the response of some member states to the refugee crisis has revealed the great erosion of humanistic and democratic values that is currently taking place in the european union. a crisis of such global proportions cannot be solved by adopting individually designed national strategies. europe cannot look at the refugee question as a problem that begins and ends at the greek, italian, cypriot or maltese borders. we are facing a crisis which affects europe as a whole and which requires a united, concerted and shared response. nationalist rhetoric, isolation and repression are not the answer. the refugee crisis requires two-dimensional solutions: on the one hand, europe must ensure that people fleeing war and violence are given a decent welcome, without prejudice or fear. the european union must also work towards conflict resolution, working with the countries and regions from which these people come. only a joint solution that simultaneously addresses the causes and protects the consequences will be appropriate, effective and in line with european principles.
the current eu and nato policies do not hesitate to finance and promote extremist forces, to conclude multi-million dollar arms sales contracts with dictatorships such as saudi arabia in order to dominate the economic and geopolitical situation in those regions. the european union has been a major player in the middle east and north africa, and the middle east is a major player in the middle east. this is the underlying reason for the mass exodus of millions of people who come to the european continent, fleeing hunger, poverty, war and death. i would urge this parliament to defend human rights and i would condemn without reservation the response to this reality. the walls, the fascist legislation humiliating refugees, the concept of a strong europe, the funding of neighbouring states to contain the flood of refugees in authentic concentration camps are the hallmark of the brutality and inhumanity of the eu. those who manage to survive such 'solidarity' are left with miserable reception conditions that precede a forced repatriation.
in writing. debating the refugee crisis is debating the crisis of purpose and values that plagues the european union. the three key points of the debate on refugees, borders and schengen illustrate this dramatically. on the one hand, they highlight the difficult coexistence between the economic crisis and the reception of refugees, as has been the case in greece. the european council also stressed the weaknesses of the common security and defence policy (cfsp) at a time when the reinforcement of the union's external border is seen as the most robust way of safeguarding free movement in the internal space. finally, with the question of the practice of retaining refugees' property in denmark, it is the clash of values that is exposed. it is urgent to tackle the refugee crisis with a new boost to growth and jobs in europe. economic and social recovery is the best antidote to overcome and overcome the self-destructive dynamics which, spontaneously or manipulated by populist currents, threaten to weaken and even destroy the european project. i therefore call for the urgent launch of a comprehensive plan to strengthen the union's external border, launched at the same time as a plan to resume the sustainable development priorities of the european area.
mr president, from the data we have on gender equality, we should be concerned with a concerted strategy for an effective way of combating the problem of inequality and discrimination. if the data we have already indicate the need for action, i am more concerned about the data that remains to be verified, because the commission is unable to ensure reliable information collection mechanisms. in fact, the commissioner herself has acknowledged this here: the case of female genital mutilation, for example. parliament has given clear directions, but the commission does not act and does not want to act, and what it offers us is a consultation and working document with no interinstitutional value. the european parliament has done its job. the commission, not so much. i'm afraid you don't even understand why the priorities are being set by this house. only then can we justify this document, which seems to me to be a disgrace to the idea of strategic political action and, by the way, of the common good. there are consequences to political action, and there are consequences to inaction. in practice, what is done is to postpone the problem, and in the process of postponing it, more women die. we treat the fundamental rights of 50% of the population as secondary rights. this document, which the commission has presented, is incipient. it reflects only one thing: disrespect for all women. the absence of commissioner jourová from this house is a symptom of this.
madam president, commissioner, the european commission is making a lot of excuses for not doing what it was legally obliged to do: to present by december 2013 criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, substances that interfere with the human hormonal system, potentially causing serious diseases. to invoke alleged scientific uncertainty to do nothing is nothing but a well-known expedient to put the safeguarding of the public interest, the safeguarding of public health, other very diverse interests, economic interests, in particular the lobby of the chemical industry, ahead of the safeguarding of public health. the endless and biased impact assessments only corroborate this fact. the fact is that this serious failure on the part of the european commission, and the unacceptable attitude of putting forward what should have been done already, turns out to be very convenient in a context where, as we know, ttip is being negotiated with the united states and where, as we know, endocrine disruptors are a hot spot in this ttip and where, as we know, the united states has a very permissive legislation in this respect. the european commission's position is unacceptable and deserves to be denounced.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my sorrow and my condolences to the family of the victim and also wish a speedy recovery to the other five people who have been admitted. volunteers participating in a clinical trial know that they are at risk, but these risks must be minimised, controlled and matched to the need and importance of these trials. in this accident we're discussing here in france, one of the eight volunteers died, the other five had side effects. we need a fully transparent investigation, we need to find out the causes, and in this sense, to look for the causes, it is of course crucial to make the autopsy report and also the medical reports known, at least to those concerned. with these reports, we may be able to shed some light, we may be able to know the causes of this accident. we also need to speed up the investigation and, of course, i repeat, nothing can be hidden, everything must be made available, the causes must be known and i would ask the commissioner whether the medical reports, the autopsy report are already known and whether those concerned will at least have access to them.
madam president, commissioner, how to increase health gains by developing new medicines while reducing risk and making innovation processes more attractive is the key question for health systems and for citizens that you are asking us to discuss here at this moment. scientific advances in health care have saved millions of lives and cured or mitigated more and more diseases. this positive acceleration requires strong and transparent regulation. the answer is not heavy regulation, enforced with different deadlines and criteria, state by state. the answer is more transparency and more knowledge sharing. the recent example of the clinical trial in rennes, france, should encourage us further along the way. we have an obligation to cooperate in the development of a scientific and legal platform that will enhance innovation and health while minimizing the risks associated with clinical trials. and that is why, commissioner, i congratulate you on your decision to create a database to support this process.
madam president, commissioner, citizens must be able to trust the health authorities, the ethics committees, the public or private bodies which investigate the development of new medicines. but for this to happen, it is necessary first of all to guarantee them the right to truth and transparency. the data, all the data, on new medicines being tested, on studies and tests being carried out, must be in the public domain and be capable of being properly scrutinised. the reports and opinions of bodies such as drug agencies, competent ethics committees, the companies involved, in particular those carrying out clinical trials, need to be made publicly available, allowing scrutiny of the rules of good practice, international guidelines, so-called guidelines, and the ethics of studies, and free information on the progress of investigations and on any errors made and their consequences. no trade secret may deny or override this right to truth and transparency.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to say that true transparency of clinical trials is essential, absolutely. it should be possible to know which clinical trials are ongoing, where and by whom, and what the purposes and outcomes are. absolutely. we are working in very close cooperation with ema. i would like to answer in more concrete detail because there were very big problems with standards and technical issues relating to data at the moment. with regard to such a tragic event in france, as you know, investigations by both the french authorities and by the police are ongoing and the causes of the incident are not yet known. several clinical hypotheses are being worked on, but as you know, for legal reasons i cannot comment on the investigation. sorry, but now is not the time to comment, because it is a very sensitive situation. i trust that we will soon know all the details, but we must check, wait and see when the investigation will be finished, and then we will be ready to ask all questions about transparency and other issues. but this investigation is currently ongoing and we have no possibility to intervene at the moment.
the pharmaceutical sector has played a key role in fighting disease and new threats to public health, providing more and better therapies for european citizens. however, there is still a long way to go, whether in the fight against cancer and new epidemics or in the fight against antibiotic resistance and ageing-related diseases. the process of innovation in the pharmaceutical sector is therefore of fundamental importance to all of us. without questioning this reality, it must be said, however, that there is no technological innovation without risk and that we must therefore be well aware that clinical trials are about human life. in my country alone, there are currently about 10,000 people involved in clinical trials. the absolutely tragic incident last month in france, which resulted in one death, cannot happen again! i believe that the commercial interests of companies cannot be overridden by the safety of citizens and the transparency of testing. serious adverse reactions should be reported early and control and monitoring procedures should be followed for safety.
mr president, the european commission is carrying out an unspeakable operation of pressure and blackmail aimed at influencing the portuguese state budget for 2016. with an arrogance of colonial cutbacks, they want to perpetuate the path that the portuguese rejected in the last elections, the same path of impoverishment, exploitation, waste. you know, mr juncker, the constitution of the portuguese republic says that it is the sole responsibility of the assembly of the republic to organise, draw up and approve the state budgets. so calm down your bureaucrats. what is at stake in this budget is to fulfil commitments made to the portuguese people, to give back to the portuguese a part of what has been stolen from them in recent years, to stop the path of national collapse. when these objectives, which are fair, even if modest and limited, are in contradiction with the rules and constraints of the european union, it says a lot about what this has become: a doomed and futureless project that will not be missed.
mr president, a point of order concerning the conduct of business and the comment you made a short while ago following my speech. as you know, one of the items on the agenda of the european council is precisely the recommendations for the euro area. i think that your intervention was timely in that respect, since my speech was perfectly placed on that agenda, i could not help but make this remark to you.
mr president, what is at stake at the next european council is to say, once and for all, if european leaders can think and decide about the european union as an entity in political, economic and geostrategic terms. of course, the brexit issue will be a big test, and we believe that the deal on the table is indeed a fair deal. but the refugee crisis is a much bigger challenge, and what is at stake is to build up a real european border – and a real european border is not a wall. it is an infrastructure that is able to provide the relevant services: first of all, managing refugee flows with european standards; secondly, to provide security for european citizens; and third, to protect the schengen area as a big undertaking to foster the single market agenda. at the same time that we cope with these external challenges, we need to address the internal ones. that is why the discussion on the euro area recommendation is also so relevant: because we need to have a much better policy mix in the euro area to ensure recovery, which is still not there, and most of all to ensure upward economic and social convergence. we cannot have a situation where some members of the eurozone are pushed into recession again just to address major macro-imbalances and flaws in our monetary zone. of course we need to see national efforts put into investment and reform, but these efforts need to be supported by banking union and fiscal capacity. most of all, we cannot ask pro-european governments, such as the portuguese and the upcoming spanish one, to go down this negative road. they are pro-european governments.
mr president, before i come to what i consider to be the main issue, which is precisely the question of the united kingdom, i would like to say to mrs maria joão rodrigues that i do not know whether the portuguese government is so pro-european, because it depends on the communist party, which here today made a totally anti-european statement, and it depends on the left bloc, which is also against a vision of the social market economy, and therefore its europeanism is doubtful. in fact, when the prime minister's chief adviser yesterday compared the european union to the soviet union, that says everything about the european convictions of this government. it was porfírio silva, a ps mp and antónio costa's chief adviser, who compared the european union to the soviet union. it is a pity that this is not taken into account. when it depends on the radical left, which is totally anti-european, it is obvious that the government, even if it is well-intentioned, will not be able to fulfil its european commitments, and therefore this is evidence, and therefore "tell me who you are with, and i will tell you who you are". that would certainly be the answer i had to give him. that said, i would like to say that i am very pleased with the proposal put forward by president tusk. i think it is essential that we keep the united kingdom in europe. the united kingdom is the guarantor of the atlantic balance in europe. for countries like portugal, ireland, the netherlands, denmark and sweden, which are more maritime and less continental countries, the presence of the united kingdom is essential if the european union is to be balanced between the centre, the east, the north and the south, and that is why i think we have taken a very big step with yesterday's statement by president tusk.
mr president, mr paulo rangel, your allegation against the portuguese government could not, of course, go unanswered on my part. everyone knows that this portuguese government is a government that can be counted on for the big issues that are on the table, in terms of responding to the british question, defending the schengen area, responding to the refugee crisis. it is a government of the most solidly pro-european. now, we cannot count on this government to apply in portugal a recipe which leads the portuguese people back to a situation of blocked recession and without any hope. you can't count on this government for that.
mr president, we are witnessing at this moment partisan attacks in the context of our work as has rarely been seen in the history of this parliament and it is very important at this moment, and i appeal to jean-claude juncker here, that the european commission remains exempt and that it is like caesar's wife, that it does not just look exempt, that it is, and does not get caught up in the violent partisan agenda that we are witnessing. as for tusk's proposal, it is a good basis for work. it is absolutely essential that the united kingdom remains in the european union, but it is also important to ensure that the progress which is now needed to build the single currency can be achieved. so this clarification is welcome and it is our hope that by analysing the details of the proposal which is now on the table, it will be possible for the united kingdom to have a more stable relationship with the rest of the european union, but also for all the countries of the european union to be able to make progress.
mr president, shame on mr weber and mr rangel for attacking the clearly pro-european portuguese government as extremist. extremists are those who stick to stupid, self—defeating, anti-growth, anti-job-creation policies in europe, fostering inequality, injustice and the distrust of the citizens in the eu. that said...(the speaker continued in portuguese) senhor presidente, queremos o reino unido na união europeia, mas não podemos continuar a tolerar que boicote o desenvolvimento das capacidades europeias no quadro da política comum de segurança e de defesa, assim, no fundo, debilitando o pilar europeu da nato, quando prementes desafios e ameaças à nossa segurança e à segurança global exigem resposta europeia e o pooling e o sharing de recursos entre estados-membros. o sr. juncker disse aqui que a crise de refugiados não terá fim enquanto não acabar a guerra na síria. é exatamente o exemplo onde a europa falhou, onde faltou a europa, como faltou na líbia. ninguém falou na líbia. o conselho europeu não se preocupa com a líbia? é exatamente também um outro caso onde a europa falhou e temos perigos iminentes em precisamos que o conselho se ocupe.
‒ the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova introduces a trade preference regime, the comprehensive and deep free trade area. the agreement includes the so-called 'anti-fraud mechanism' which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the rate of the mfn customs duty whenever imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain ceiling without due justification of their exact origin. the establishment of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is indispensable to establish in eu internal law the instrument necessary to be able to apply this bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-fraud mechanism. i support the scholz report which is precisely putting into practice the provisions of the eu-moldova association agreement, protecting eu producers where necessary.
‒ the association agreement with moldova, like most of our trade agreements, includes a bilateral safeguard clause. in addition, this agreement includes the so-called anti-fraud mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. the commission's present proposal is largely based on comparable implementing regulations which have been discussed among the co-legislators and adopted by them under several recent eu free trade agreements currently in force. the approval of the proposed regulation is necessary to comply with the obligations of moldova under the agreement and consequently to protect eu producers, if necessary. i voted in favour.
‒ the association agreement with moldova includes a bilateral safeguard clause. the preferences may be temporarily suspended through this instrument if their application results in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury. in addition, the agreement also includes the so-called 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. the agreement we condemned and opposed introduces a system of trade preferences, the comprehensive and deepened free trade area (cfta). the main exports from moldova to the european union are oilseeds, fresh and dried nuts, apple juice, wines and cereals. the main eu exports to moldova are spirits, food preparations, cigarettes, some fruit and vegetables, including citrus fruits, pork and animal feed. this clause and this mechanism do not change the nature of this agreement, which we reject. they can only, under certain circumstances, mitigate some of its most harmful consequences.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. the safeguard clause and the anti-fraud mechanism are common to most trade agreements and the amendments to the commission proposal are only intended to clarify the terms of the procedure, particularly as regards relations between the european institutions and national authorities.
‒ the association agreement with moldova includes a bilateral safeguard clause under which preferences may be temporarily suspended if their application results in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party, and the so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' rate of customs duty whenever imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. in order to be able to apply this bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism, it is necessary to provide in european union law for the establishment of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. i agree with the rapporteur that the adoption of the proposal for a regulation is necessary to ensure that moldova complies with its obligations under the agreement and, consequently, to protect eu producers if necessary.
‒ the association agreement with moldova includes a bilateral safeguard clause whereby preferences may be temporarily suspended if their application results in an unexpected and significant increase in economically damaging imports. it also includes the so-called 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate. the agreement we condemned and opposed introduces a system of trade preferences, the comprehensive and deepened free trade area (cfta). this clause and this mechanism do not change the nature of this agreement, which we reject, and can only in limited circumstances mitigate some of its most harmful consequences.
‒ the eu-moldova association agreement - signed on 24 june 2014 and subject to parliamentary approval on 13 november 2014 - includes, like most other trade agreements, a bilateral safeguard clause. under this clause, it is accepted that preferences may be temporarily suspended where, as a result of the reduction or elimination of customs duties, imports of products originating in moldova increase significantly in terms which cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the union industry. the agreement also includes the so-called anti-fraud mechanism, under which the most-favoured-nation tariff rate may be reintroduced whenever imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain ceiling without due justification as to their exact origin. the commission proposal for a regulation in question is intended to implement the provisions of the association agreement, and is therefore necessary to ensure that moldova complies with the obligations arising from the agreement and to protect eu producers. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union (eu) and the republic of moldova, signed on 24 june 2014, introduces a trade preference regime - the comprehensive and deep free trade area (cfta). the regulation was recently amended to extend the duty-free regime to moldovan wine and to grant duty-free tariff quotas for apples, plums and table grapes. these amendments are aimed at harmonizing the content of the regulation with that of the eu-moldova association agreement, and i therefore voted in favour. the eu is moldova's main trading partner, accounting for 46.4% of its trade, followed by russia (21.9%) and ukraine (11.8%). trade with moldova represents 0,1% of the union's overall trade. agricultural products represent a significant part of the total imports from moldova into the union. the main exports from moldova to the union are oilseeds, fresh and dried nuts, apple juice, wines and cereals. the main exports from the european union to moldova are spirits, food preparations, cigarettes, some fruit and vegetables, including citrus fruits, pork and animal feed.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union (eu) and the republic of moldova was signed in june 2014 and has been (provisionally) applied since september 2014. the eu is moldova's main trading partner, accounting for some 46.4% of its trade, so the establishment of a sound and fair regulation for both co-signatories is key to the development of good trade relations between the parties. however, in order to ensure a rapid, fair and effective operation and the proper dissemination of the mutual benefits inherent in this agreement, it is important to introduce a bilateral safeguard clause, which should be applied whenever such trade causes or threatens to cause 'serious injury' to the domestic industry of the union. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it contains necessary measures to safeguard european commercial interests.
‒ the association agreement with moldova includes a bilateral safeguard clause. under this instrument, preferences may be temporarily suspended if their application results in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. in addition, the agreement also includes the so-called 'anti-circumvention' mechanism which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. the question is to establish the mechanisms for triggering these two clauses by the european commission.
‒ the association agreement between the european union and georgia introduces an ambitious regime of trade preferences between both parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area. the agreement includes in article 27a the so-called 'anti-fraud mechanism' which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the rate of the mfn customs duty whenever imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain ceiling without due justification of their exact origin. i support the report by mr lansbergis which includes an 'anti-circumvention clause' to prevent the importation into the union of non-georgian products via georgia, by taking advantage of the provisions of the agreement to prevent countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia from using the agreement with the union to circumvent the requirements of rules of origin.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement includes a mechanism called the 'anti-fraud mechanism' which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification as to their exact origin. the proposed amendment to the commission text aims to harmonise the wording of the regulation with that of the eu-georgia association agreement. it states that the commission must draw up a more detailed report, so as to mention explicitly the application of an anti-fraud mechanism. i voted in favour.
‒ the eu-georgia association agreement includes a mechanism called the 'anti-fraud mechanism' which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification as to their exact origin. the agreement which we condemn and against which we were introduces a system of trade preferences between both parties, known as the comprehensive and deepened free trade area (cfta). the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner, accounting for 27.2% of its trade. on the other hand, trade with georgia represents 0.1% of the eu's overall trade, amounting to eur 2,6 billion in 2014. in terms of agricultural products, the main eu imports from georgia are fresh and dried hazelnuts, mineral water and wine. the main eu exports to georgia are processed agricultural products (such as spirits and food preparations) and dairy products. this mechanism does not change the nature of the agreement, which we reject, but it can only mitigate some of its most harmful consequences in certain circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the safeguard clause and the avoidance mechanism are common to most trade agreements and the amendments to the commission proposal are only intended to clarify the terms of the procedure, particularly as regards relations between the european institutions and national authorities.
‒ the association agreement between the european union and georgia includes a mechanism called the 'anti-fraud mechanism' under which the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate can be reintroduced whenever imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification as to their exact origin. in order to be able to apply this anti-fraud mechanism, it is necessary to introduce in the legislation of the european union the establishment of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. i agree with the rapporteur that the adoption of the proposal for a regulation is necessary to ensure that georgia complies with its obligations under the agreement and, consequently, to protect eu producers if necessary.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner. this agreement - which we condemn and against which we were - introduces a system of trade preferences between the two parties, known as the comprehensive and deepened free trade area (cfta). it includes the so-called 'anti-fraud mechanism', which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from that country exceed a certain threshold. this mechanism can only mitigate some of its most harmful consequences in certain circumstances, and it does not change the nature of this agreement, which we reject.
in the case of the eu-georgia association agreement, signed on 27 june 2014 and subject to parliamentary approval on 18 december 2014, the so-called anti-fraud mechanism allows the reintroduction of the mfn rate of customs duty whenever imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain ceiling without proper justification as to their exact origin. the main aim is to prevent countries with free trade agreements with georgia, such as turkey and the europmed countries, from using this agreement to circumvent the 'rules of origin' requirements. the commission proposal for a regulation in this case is precisely intended to define the procedures necessary to ensure the application of this mechanism, ensuring on the one hand compliance by georgia with the obligations arising from the agreement and on the other avoiding potential negative impacts on the eu market. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union (eu) and georgia, signed on 27 june 2014, provides for an ambitious trade preference regime between the two parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). it was negotiated following the same approach as was followed in the simultaneous negotiations with other countries in the region, such as moldova and armenia, the latter having abandoned the idea of signing an agreement with the eu in favour of signing a trade agreement with russia. the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner, accounting for 27.2% of its trade. in terms of agricultural products, the main eu imports from georgia are fresh and dried hazelnuts, mineral water and wine. the main eu exports to georgia are processed agricultural products (such as spirits and food preparations) and dairy products. the amendment proposed to the commission text aims to harmonise the wording of the regulation with that of the eu-georgia association agreement and states the obligation of the commission to draw up a more detailed report, so as to expressly mention the application of an anti-circumvention mechanism, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ the eu-georgia association agreement was signed on 27 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 september. it is an agreement establishing a comprehensive and deep free trade area and introducing an ambitious trade preference regime between the two parties. the agreement includes the anti-fraud mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation tariff rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without justification as to their exact origin. as i consider that this is an instrument which will make it possible to strengthen georgia's obligations in relation to the anti-circumvention provisions of the agreement, with the aim also of giving a higher degree of protection to producers in the european union, i have decided to support this report by voting in favour of it.
‒ the eu-georgia association agreement includes a mechanism called the 'anti-fraud mechanism' which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the 'most favoured nation' customs duty rate whenever imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification as to their exact origin. the question is to establish the mechanisms for triggering these two clauses by the european commission. the agreement introduces a system of trade preferences between the two parties, known as the comprehensive and deepened free trade area (cfta). it was negotiated following the same approach as was followed in the simultaneous negotiations with other countries in the region, such as moldova and armenia (the latter having abandoned the idea of signing such an agreement with the eu in favour of signing a trade agreement with russia). the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner, accounting for 27.2% of its trade (with neighbours turkey and azerbaijan in second and third place respectively). on the other hand, trade with georgia represents 0.1% of the eu's overall trade, amounting to eur 2,6 billion in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is proud to promote the openness of the institutions and bring citizens closer to the european decision-making centres. following a petition by the european association of the blind, parliament decided to give its opinion on the marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate access to published works for blind people, people with visual impairments or people with other print disabilities. this parliament also takes pride in defending the fundamental rights of all across the continent. and here too, it could not ignore the attempt by seven member states to block the ratification of this treaty, signed by the union and its individual member states. access to education and the principle of equality are inalienable values of the european union. it is therefore unacceptable that, despite the political commitment made by signing the treaty, its entry into force is now blocked and the fundamental rights of millions of people are thus disregarded. it is not acceptable that in the so-called "developed world", only 5% of the books published are accessible to the blind and visually impaired.
‒ the world health organisation estimated that in 2010 there were 2 550 000 blind people and 23 800 000 amblyopes in europe, out of a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired people. however, only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are produced in accessible formats. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. member states should speed up this process without making ratification conditional on the review of the eu legal framework or the decision of the court of justice of the european union.
‒ only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are published in accessible formats. the aim of the marrakesh treaty is to facilitate, by means of copyright exceptions, the production of versions of books originally protected by copyright laws that are accessible to people with visual impairments. the eu and most of its member states have signed the marrakesh treaty and have made a political commitment to ratify it. the resolution expresses outrage at the fact that seven member states form a blocking minority which prevents ratification of the treaty. recalls articles 24 and 30 of the un crpd: the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities and access to cultural property. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the petitions received, in particular petition no 924/2011. blind and visually impaired persons should have access to published works and other printed matter. it is unfortunate that only five percent of books published in developed countries and less than one percent of books published in developing countries are produced in accessible formats. the eu and the member states are parties to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the eu should therefore ratify and implement the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible.
in writing. articles 24 and 30 of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities highlight the right of persons with disabilities to education, without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, while ensuring that legislation protecting intellectual property rights does not constitute an excessive or discriminatory barrier to access by persons with disabilities to cultural materials. according to estimates by the world health organisation, in 2010 there were 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 amblyopes in europe, out of a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired people. and only 5 percent of books published in developed countries and less than 1 percent of books published in developing countries are produced in accessible formats. the eu and the member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014 and have therefore made a political commitment to ratify it; however, there is a blockading force of seven member states which impedes the ratification process. i believe that the council and the member states should speed up the ratification process with a view to greater integration and to ensuring that all citizens are treated equally.
‒ the aim of the marrakesh treaty is to facilitate, through copyright exceptions, the production of versions accessible to visually impaired persons of books originally protected by copyright laws, in a context where only a small fraction of books are published in response to this need. the eu and most of its member states have signed the marrakesh treaty and have made a political commitment to ratify it. the resolution expressed outrage at the fact that seven member states form a blocking minority which prevents ratification of the treaty and recalled articles 24 and 30 of the un crpd: the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities and access to cultural property.
‒ the world health organisation estimated that in 2010 there were more than two and a half million blind people and some 23 million amblyopes in europe representing a total of 26.35 million visually impaired people. furthermore, only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are produced in formats accessible to those same people. this report, which i welcome, reinforces and highlights the right of persons with disabilities to education, without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, while ensuring that legislation protecting intellectual property rights does not constitute an excessive or discriminatory obstacle to access by persons with disabilities to cultural materials. the report also notes with deep indignation that seven eu member states have formed a blocking minority which is impeding the ratification process of the treaty; it calls on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process without making ratification conditional on the review of the eu legal framework or the decision of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. - i have given my support to this motion for a resolution, which concerns the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, in the light of the petitions received from european citizens, in particular from those with a reading disability. the marrakesh treaty aims to facilitate access to published works for the visually impaired, who are estimated to number over 26 million in europe. currently, only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are produced in accessible formats, so in the name of equality, non-discrimination and the right to education, we cannot accept the delay in ratifying the marrakesh treaty, which the eu and its member states already signed in april 2014, nor make it dependent on the revision of the eu legal framework. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ according to 2010 who data, there are an estimated 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially blind people in europe, totalling 26 350 000 people. on the other hand, only 5% of books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are published in accessible formats. the eu and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014 and have made a political commitment to ratify it. it is regrettable that seven member states form a blocking minority which prevents ratification of the treaty. the marrakesh treaty has been seen as a positive paradigm shift in terms of both the international regulation of the copyright and intellectual property rights system and the concern for accessibility and the rights of people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of fg72 was submitted by bayer to the competent authority in belgium on 24/6/2011. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee of 18/11/2015 and was assessed as 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. the resolution calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision and to submit a new proposal which can reflect all the concerns expressed in various community regulations.
in writing. ‒ bayer cropscience has submitted to the competent authority of belgium an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from fg72 soybean. this genetically modified mst-fgø72-2 soybean, as described in the application, expresses the gat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glyphosate, which is classified by the international agency for research on cancer as a probable human carcinogen. i believe that the european union must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed. i hope that the commission will put forward a new legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and take into account the concerns of the world health organisation.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of fg72 was submitted by bayer to the competent authority in belgium on 24/6/2011. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee of 18/11/2015 and was assessed as 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised, nor old authorisations to be renewed, until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
‒ since i consider that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) appears to be in conformity with union law, and in particular to be in line with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed, i have voted against this resolution which, pursuant to rule 106 of the rules of procedure, calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law, as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council. therefore, and taking into account the need to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, i support the commission withdrawing its draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution by agreeing to request the commission to submit a new legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ this objection concerns the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybeans. since this type of soybean is resistant to glyphosate (herbicide), it is natural that products containing it have traces of it. on 18 november, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to be genotoxic (i.e. harmful to dna) or to pose a carcinogenic threat to humans with only one vote against. however, there is a divergent opinion regarding the possible carcinogenicity/hazard of glyphosate by the international agency for research on cancer (who agency) which classified it as probably carcinogenic to humans (20/03/2015). it should also be noted that this is an implementing act whose application is the responsibility of the european commission. in this respect, weighing both arguments, the fact that new legislation on gmos is being prepared and the fact that the ppe group did not object to the delegated act, based on the efsa opinion, i decided to abstain. it is also clear to me that the efsa and the who should immediately start to coordinate their positions on this matter.
‒ this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well. it called for no new varieties of gmos to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been considerably improved. considering that all those soy products confer increased tolerance to different types of herbicides (in particular glyphosate), which was classified as probably carcinogenic to humans by the iarc on 15 march 2015, this draft implementing decision is not compatible with the objectives of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 on pesticide residues in food and feed.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of mon87708xmon89788 was submitted by monsanto to the competent authority in the netherlands on 23/3/2012. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee of 18/11/2015 and was assessed as 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the future of the european union, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the proposal to include the following areas: gmos and in particular these products have a high intolerance to several types of herbicides, such as glyphosate, which has been considered as probably carcinogenic to humans by the international cancer research centre, the who's specialized agency for this disease. food and environmental health and safety cannot be left out of the picture in matters of this kind. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize mon 87708 x mon 89788 (mon-88ø17-9 x mon-øø81ø-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. the resolution calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision and to submit a new proposal which can reflect all the concerns expressed in various community regulations.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe s.a. has submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean. this genetically modified soybean mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1, as described in the application, expresses the dmo protein, which confers tolerance to dicamba-based herbicides, the cry1ac protein, which confers resistance to lepidopteran pests, and the cp4 epsps protein, which confers tolerance to herbicides containing glyphosate, which is classified by the international agency for research on cancer as a probable human carcinogen. i believe that the european union must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed. i hope that the commission will put forward a new legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and take into account the concerns of the world health organisation.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of mon87708xmon89788 was submitted by monsanto to the competent authority in the netherlands on 23.3.2012. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee of 18/11/2015 and was assessed as 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised, nor old authorisations to be renewed, until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
‒ since i consider that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788 (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) appears to be in conformity with union law and is in particular suitable for the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed, i have voted against this resolution which, pursuant to rule 106 of the rules of procedure, asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, insofar as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council. the draft commission implementing decision approves the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean, which expresses the cp4 protein epsps, which shows tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. therefore, and on the basis that glyphosate has been considered by the international agency for research on cancer - the who's specialized agency for this disease - as probably carcinogenic to humans, i support the commission withdrawing its draft implementing decision and therefore submitting a new legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ following an application submitted in 2012 by monsanto europe sa to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean, which has been found to contain glyphosate, i have decided to abstain for the same reasons as those given for the statement of vote on report b8-0133/2016 on an objection to an equivalent delegated act.
‒ this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well. it called for no new varieties of gmos to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been considerably improved. considering that all those soy products confer increased tolerance to different types of herbicides (in particular to glyphosate, which was classified as probably carcinogenic to humans by the iarc on 15 march 2015), this draft implementing decision is not compatible with the objectives of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and of regulation (ec) no 396/2005 on pesticide residues in food and feed.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe s.a. has submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybean, containing glyphosate, which is considered by the international agency for research on cancer to be a probable human carcinogen.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of mon87705xmon89788 was submitted by monsanto to the competent authority in the netherlands on 11/08/2011. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee of 18/11/2015 and was assessed as 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the future of the european union, the commission proposes that the european union should continue to support the development of the union's policy on food and feed, in particular by supporting the development of the food and feed sector. gmos and in particular these soy products have a high intolerance to several types of herbicides, such as glyphosate, which has been considered as probably carcinogenic to humans by the international cancer research centre, the who's cancer agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. the resolution calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision and to submit a new proposal which can reflect all the concerns expressed in various community regulations.
in writing. ‒ monsanto europe s.a. has submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybean. this genetically modified soybean mon-877ø5-6× mon-89788-1 has reduced expression of the enzymes δ12, fatty acid desaturase (fad2) and plamityl acyl transporter protein thioesterase (fatb), resulting in a high oleic acid profile and a low linoleic acid profile, and expresses the cp4 epsps protein, which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides classified by the international agency for research on cancer as likely to be carcinogenic to humans. i believe that the eu must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed. i hope that the commission will put forward a new legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and take into account the concerns of the world health organisation.
in writing. ‒ the application for authorisation of mon87705xmon89788 was submitted by monsanto to the competent authority in the netherlands on 11/08/2011. this application was evaluated by the european food safety authority (efsa), which delivered a favourable opinion. it was then considered by the standing committee on 18/11/2015 and was assessed with 'no opinion', as has been the case since this procedure was agreed. this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well and calls for no new gmo varieties to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been significantly improved. we voted in favour, given our position against the authorization of gmos. the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
‒ since i consider that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) appears to be in conformity with union law and is in particular suitable for the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed, i have voted against this resolution, which, pursuant to rule 106 of the rules of procedure, asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i welcome the presentation of this motion for a resolution by agreeing that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of food, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of or produced from mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybean is not compatible with union law, as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council. i agree that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision as genetically modified soybean mon-877ø5-6× mon-89788-1 expresses the cp4 epsps protein, which shows tolerance to herbicides containing glyphosate, which has been considered by the international agency for research on cancer as probably carcinogenic to humans. i therefore voted in favour of this document as it calls on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ on the basis of an application submitted in 2011 by monsanto europe sa to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1) detected as containing glyphosate, therefore and for the same reasons given for the statements of vote on reports b8-0133/2016 and b8-0134/2016 on an objection to an equivalent delegated act, i have decided to abstain.
‒ this resolution objects to the adoption of the draft implementing decision on the grounds that the current authorisation procedure for genetically modified food and feed is not working well. it called for no new varieties of gmos to be authorised and for old authorisations not to be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been considerably improved. considering that all those soy products confer increased tolerance to different types of herbicides (in particular glyphosate) which was classified as probably carcinogenic to humans by the iarc on 15 march 2015, this draft implementing decision is not compatible with the objectives of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 on pesticide residues in food and feed.
in writing. ‒ i am well aware that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the union each year and has an estimated cost of €940 billion due to its effects on health, and that exhaust emissions from diesel vehicles are a major source of nox in urban areas in europe and that, according to the european environment agency, nox emissions are the cause of 75 000 premature deaths in europe. to achieve the eu's air quality objectives, a continuous effort to reduce vehicle emissions is needed, including a considerable reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions from vehicles equipped with diesel engines. i am sensitive to the argument of the committee on the environment that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 715/2007 and may be contrary to union law as it is not compatible with the objective and content of that regulation. on the other hand, i admit that postponing the problem and waiting for a new initiative from the commission may represent an excessively long legal vacuum without any clear public health gains. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
‒ the measure proposed by the european commission is part of the second package on real driving emissions testing, which sets emission limits to be respected and dates for their application to new models and vehicles. in the current legal framework, vehicle emissions are determined on the basis of test cycles carried out in laboratories, which do not reflect vehicle emissions under normal driving conditions. the commission has been developing procedures to determine vehicle emissions under real driving conditions, including the use of portable emission measurement systems. the decision will allow the edr procedure to proceed.
in writing. ‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. the euro 6 emission limit for nitrogen oxides (nox) for vehicles equipped with a diesel engine is 80 mg/km in that regulation, applicable to all new vehicles from 1/9/2014 and to all vehicles sold from 1/9/2015. this new proposal introduces a temporary compliance factor of 2,1 resulting in nox emissions of 168 mg/km in the real driving test applicable to all new passenger vehicles from 9/2019 (new types and vehicles 09/2017) and a final compliance factor of 1,5 which would be applicable to all new vehicles from 2021, allowing these vehicles to emit around 120 mg/km of nox in the red test. in practice, therefore, we are faced with a considerable increase in the figures previously forecast. the resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft resolution, as the commission's proposal would result in a derogation from the euro 6 nox emission limit values. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106: emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) it is important to require manufacturers to ensure, at the time of type-approval and throughout the lifetime of the vehicle, that the emissions produced during an ecr test do not exceed the limit values. the tests shall be real, i.e. road driving tests.
‒ the commission has drawn up a draft decision with the support of the member states. this project is based on an analysis by the joint research centre (jrc) which concluded that the real-life (rather than laboratory) test procedure can introduce a measurement uncertainty margin of up to 30%, i.e. a 'more pessimistic margin' of 25 mg nox/km in the case of the euro 6 limit. i voted against the motion for a resolution because the commission has drawn up a new draft implementing measure with the aim of amending the regulation by adapting the test procedures so that they adequately reflect the emissions generated in real driving conditions on the road. i also regard it as extremely positive that manufacturers are required, at the time of type approval and throughout the life of the vehicle, to ensure that the emissions produced during an ecr test do not exceed certain limit values.
in writing. ‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. the euro 6 emission limit for nitrogen oxides (nox) for vehicles equipped with a diesel engine is 80 mg/km in that regulation, applicable to all new vehicles from 1/9/2014 and to all vehicles sold from 1/9/2015. this new proposal introduces a temporary compliance factor of 2,1 resulting in nox emissions of 168 mg/km in the real driving test applicable to all new passenger vehicles from 9/2019 (new types and vehicles 09/2017) and a final compliance factor of 1,5 which would be applicable to all new vehicles from 2021, allowing these vehicles to emit around 120 mg/km of nox in the red test. in practice, therefore, we are faced with a considerable increase in the figures previously forecast. the resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft resolution, as the commission's proposal would result in a derogation from the euro 6 nox emission limit values. we voted in favour.
‒ taking into account regulation (ec) no 715/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 june 2007 on type-approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 5 and euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information, the commission has drawn up a new draft implementing measure with the aim of amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 by adapting the test procedures so that they adequately reflect emissions generated by real driving conditions on the road. since i consider that the commission does not exceed its implementing powers by presenting its proposal for a regulation in accordance with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 in so far as the emission limits provided for therein are not called into question, i have voted against this resolution which, pursuant to rule 106 of the rules of procedure, calls on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation and to submit a new proposal by 1 april 2016.
‒ air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the european union each year and has an estimated cost of around eur 940 billion due to its harmful effects on public health. to meet the reality these figures reflect, and in line with eu air quality objectives, a continued effort to reduce vehicle emissions is needed. to that end, and given the need for brands to ensure, at the time of type-approval and throughout the lifetime of the vehicle, that the emissions produced do not exceed certain limit values, it is necessary to adopt measures to ensure the effectiveness of the emission control systems of vehicles. the european commission has therefore proposed new implementing measures to amend the regulation by adapting the test procedures to reflect emissions generated under real-world conditions. because appropriate regulation is indispensable and urgent in this area, i voted against this motion for an objection because i consider that the commission's proposal to adapt the test procedures allows them to adequately reflect the emissions generated in real driving conditions on the road.
in writing. ‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. the resolution opposes the adoption of the committee's draft resolution, as the committee's proposal would result in a derogation from the euro 6 nox emission limit values. it also exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the regulation. the resolution calls for the proposal to be withdrawn and for a new regulation to be submitted without delay, which would provide for real-world emissions testing and be in line with regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution objecting under rule 106 to the draft resolution amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles, because i consider that the commission has exceeded its powers in the process and as a sign of disagreement with the recent behaviour of the council in this matter. i would, however, like to stress the evolution of the european commission's position on real driving tests and the application of factor 1 compliance until 2023, and i hope that we can continue to work towards a path that guarantees the confidence and competitiveness of the european automobile industry and safeguards the health of citizens and the preservation of the environment.
‒ the trade in services agreement (tisa) is a trade agreement being negotiated between 23 members of the world trade organisation with the aim of liberalising trade in services between the participants. in the light of the treaties, the european parliament has no negotiating power, but it has the power to express its opinion during the negotiation process with a view to influencing its development, which means that the final agreement cannot enter into force without the approval of the european parliament and the member states. i support mrs reding's report because i believe that tisa is an opportunity for the eu to consolidate its position as the world's largest exporter of services while providing european consumers with more rights and lower prices, more jobs and economic growth in the eu, and reducing a set of non-tariff barriers that exist today in cross-border services and that disproportionately affect small and medium-sized enterprises. i welcome the exclusion of public and audiovisual services from the agreement and stress the importance of the requirements on data protection and respect for private life.
‒ it is necessary to guarantee more opportunities for european companies in foreign markets, the exclusion of public services, the protection of labour rights and the right to legislate in the public interest. if the european parliament's recommendations are followed, tisa will guarantee more rights for citizens on the inside and remove obstacles to businesses on the outside. the european commission therefore needs to ensure that the agreement creates a level playing field in the services sector and opens up new markets for eu service providers in areas such as telecommunications, transport and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement (tisa), as well as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) and the canada-european union comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta), are part of an unprecedented strategy of deregulation and liberalisation of trade worldwide and the commercialisation of essential public services. tisa covers sectors as diverse as telecommunications and e-commerce, financial services and insurance, transport and even health services. apart from any democratic scrutiny and involvement of governments in this process, a complex web of rules and regulations is intended to be imposed, designed to overcome state constraints and to usurp any national parliamentary control. as with other agreements such as ttip, the whole negotiation process has been conducted in the strictest secrecy. in the end, this agreement represents yet another violent attack on national sovereignty, public services and a policy of development and the welfare of the people. this report, negotiated between the right and the social democrats, endorses tisa and the negotiations which have been taking place, even if, as is usually the case, it seeks to deceive the unwary and to ease some bad consciences by proposing measures to mitigate the negative effects which are already in sight. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa), together with ttip and ceta, are becoming one of the main instruments for enforcing the commission's neoliberal policies which give privileges to large private sector companies while depriving citizens of their rights. this agreement is not intended to protect public services, compliance with the conventions of the international labour organisation, environmental protection, data protection and the right to privacy. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). the european parliament plays a decisive role in eu trade policy. the european parliament has the final say on trade agreements. in this respect, the trade in services agreement (tisa) should reflect parliament's commitment to project a positive image of the negotiations on the agreement. the eu should continue to implement measures to increase transparency in its trade agreements.
‒ this report on the negotiations on the trade and services agreement represents parliament's position on the negotiations now under way between the commission, representing the union, and 23 member countries of the world trade organisation. this document sets out parliament's priorities in an agreement which must above all guarantee more rights for our citizens and at the same time remove barriers to our businesses in markets outside the union. the conditions must therefore be equal in the services sector, from transport to tourism, public procurement and telecommunications. this agreement will open up new markets for service providers in the union. the agreement should also respect the union acquis on data protection and the right to privacy. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the report.
‒ the generalisation of free trade agreements, of which this agreement (tisa) stands out, but also ttip or ceta, are part of a strategy with an unprecedented scope of deregulation and liberalisation of trade worldwide and the commodification of essential public services. the broad spectrum of sectors covered by tisa (telecommunications and electronic commerce, financial and insurance services, transport and even health services) aims to impose itself as a complex network of rules and regulations, designed to overcome state constraints and any national parliamentary control, in a clear attack on countries' sovereignty, public services and a policy of development and the well-being of populations. all outside of any democratic scrutiny. as with other agreements such as those referred to, the whole negotiation process has been conducted in the strictest secrecy. the text clearly demonstrates the agreement between the right and the social democrats to facilitate the progress of the tisa negotiations and to get it approved, by using cunning tricks to try to deceive the most distracted. we voted against it.
‒ i welcome this report, in which the rapporteur aims to assess the first two and a half years and the first thirteen rounds of negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa) and to make clear and sound recommendations to the european commission. i believe that the negotiations on tisa should ensure greater reciprocity in market access, create a level playing field at global level, provide concrete benefits for consumers and also allow interested parties access to the negotiations in order to facilitate future multilateralisation. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european parliament should work constructively and pragmatically to project a positive image of the tisa negotiations and to give them priority so that a good agreement is reached, which is compatible with the interests of both european companies and european citizens.
‒ this report by mrs reding aims to assess the first two and a half years and the first 13 rounds of negotiations on the trade in services agreement, which is being negotiated between 23 wto members with the aim of liberalising trade in services. the commission's objective recommendations include greater reciprocity in market access, fair conditions at global level, a guarantee of concrete benefits for consumers and access to negotiations for all interested parties, as a way of facilitating future multilateralisation. non-negotiable services such as public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data privacy, fair working conditions and the right to legislate should be excluded from the agreement. tisa should be based on the wto general agreement on trade in services and aim at promoting balances in international trade relations. i am sure that this agreement will give european companies more opportunities to provide services to/in third countries without compromising public services, data and consumer protection, as well as high labour and environmental standards, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the plurilateral negotiations for a trade in services agreement (tisa) because it contains the european parliament's recommendations and demands to the european commission with a view to a fair and balanced final agreement. these negotiations are important for the european union, which is the world leader in trade in services. the aim is to regulate trade in services in an ambitious way, covering the major issues of the 21st century, including e-commerce. i support the report because it insists on combating social dumping, advocates the exclusion of public services from the agreement, ensures the right to legislate in the public interest, rejects new commitments in the field of financial services that could compromise eu financial regulation, promotes data protection and privacy in the context of a digital economy and advocates the strengthening of the transparency of tisa negotiations. in short, i supported this report in favour of better regulation of trade in services and against social dumping.
‒ another treaty is under discussion which is highly damaging to national states and to the interests of peoples and workers. as the acronym tisa indicates, this is the complete liberalization on an international scale of the so-called services market, which covers highly sensitive sectors of our economies. in addition to financial services, this includes health, education, transport and even audiovisual and cultural services. the negotiations take place in switzerland under the utmost secrecy. in other words, it is the big capitalist countries that are looking for what they have not been able to get in the big international forums where all countries speak on an equal footing. the aim of this agreement, in practice and in summary, is to do the will of the large lobbies of multinational companies by opening up a number of markets which until now have been protected in accordance with the will of national governments. equal treatment in the provision of these services, but also in the collection of public subsidies, as is the case in the audiovisual sector. in other words, the aim of this treaty is to put an end to the notion of public service as it was created, that is, as a political instrument serving the sovereign development and welfare of the people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa) because it gives a detailed assessment of the first two and a half years and the first thirteen rounds of negotiations on the tisa agreement and makes clear and consistent recommendations to the european commission. i agree with the rapporteur that the negotiations on tisa should ensure greater reciprocity in market access, create a level playing field globally, provide concrete benefits to consumers and allow stakeholders access to the negotiations, so as to facilitate future multilateralisation, and exclude public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data privacy and fair working conditions, as well as the right to legislate, from the scope of the agreement as non-negotiable. the european parliament must continue its work constructively to promote a positive image of the tisa negotiations, to demystify them and to give them priority, so that a good agreement is reached, which is compatible with the interests of both european companies and european citizens. i also therefore argue that tisa must be balanced, otherwise it cannot exist.
‒ gender equality and women's rights remain a priority for the european parliament. unfortunately, despite the immense progress achieved, both the european continent and the world remain unequal. it is therefore necessary to remain uncompromising in the defence of fundamental rights. achieving results in this area is only possible through a joint effort involving each citizen and the various levels of government, from the town hall to the united nations. at european level, therefore, a concerted strategy with clear objectives and well-defined instruments is also warranted. i am, of course, in favour of an active strategy which goes beyond the mere decree of equality. however, i cannot support the exploitation of the union's core values for purely political purposes. i therefore abstained on this resolution.
‒ equality between women and men is a core value of the member states and is crucial as a strategic objective to achieve the overall goals of growth, employment and social inclusion. member states have taken some important steps to strengthen women's rights and gender equality, but there has been a slowdown in policy action and reform over the last decade at eu level. the employment rate in the member states for men (70.1%) remained higher than for women (59.6%), coupled with the fact that almost a third of women (32.2%) worked part-time. i therefore agree that member states should do more to address equality issues, combat violence against women and ensure equal access and opportunities in the areas of employment, health and education, both in the public and private sectors.
‒ the aim of this resolution is to call on the european commission to adopt immediately a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, addressing gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations, and in line with the international agenda, namely the 2015 beijing+20 outcome document and the new framework for 'gender equality and women's empowerment: transforming the lives of girls and women through the eu's external relations (2016-2020). it called on the commission to propose legislative initiatives in its work programme with a view to eliminating the remaining inequalities between women and men in the eu. the resolution contains some criticism of the commission work programme for 2016 for not making any specific reference to the eu strategy for gender equality post-2015. it regrets the lack of concrete objectives and a specific budget, without which progress on targets and indicators is neither measurable nor feasible. we voted in favour.
‒ gender equality is a core value of the eu, enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, and is a key step towards achieving the overall goals of the strategy 2020 for growth, jobs and social inclusion. for these reasons, the european commission should not ignore these assumptions, and it is regrettable that in its work programme for 2016 it does not make any specific reference to the eu strategy for gender equality post-2015 and that in the working document strategic commitment for gender equality, 2016-2019 no concrete objectives or a specific budget are presented, which would allow the feasibility and measurability of the targets proposed by the strategy. in this regard, i support the position of the resolution, which calls on the commission to present a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, which takes into account gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, health, education and to adopt further legislative initiatives in this area in its work programme.
‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the new strategy for gender equality and women's rights post-2015. i disagree with the text that has been presented which does nothing to promote and strengthen gender equality.
‒ gender equality is a policy which, because of its importance, must be integrated horizontally into all member states' policies. the union, through the eu2020 strategy and its gender equality strategy, has also taken decisive steps to ensure that equality between men and women is strengthened at member state level. i therefore consider it crucial that work in this area continues, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
the resolution calls for the immediate adoption of a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, which addresses gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, health, education, among others. calls for the commission work programme for 2016 to be aligned with the international agenda, namely the document beijing +20 and the new framework for 'gender equality and women's empowerment: transforming the lives of girls and women through eu external relations (2016-2020) . while the commission has made a strategic commitment to gender equality, it lacks concrete objectives and a specific budget. it reinforced the ep's call for the adoption of a new specific strategy for women's rights and gender equality post-2015 (absent from its work programme, which speaks well of the commission's position on gender equality and women's rights) and to propose legislative initiatives in its work programme with a view to eliminating the remaining inequalities between women and men in the eu. we therefore voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i support the creation of a new post-2015 strategy that will give new impetus and allow concrete action to be taken to strengthen women's rights and promote gender equality, given that there has been a slowdown in policy action and reform in this area over the last decade at eu level. i welcome this document which calls on the commission to adopt a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, addressing gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations. i therefore support the holding of an eu summit on gender equality and women's rights, so that progress can be identified and commitments renewed. i would also stress the importance of the commission cooperating with parliament and the council during this process.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the founding principles of the european union. since 1957, the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' has been part of the treaty of rome. the right to equal treatment is a symbolic right in european culture and must be the subject of legislative harmonisation which is not inconsistent with judicial decisions and with what constitutes practical reality. the european commission's proposal for the 2015-2020 strategy contains a set of measures that are quite satisfactory, and i do not think that there is a need to take additional measures, such as the creation of new legislation on this matter, given the already voluminous number of existing legislation. i do think it is important that it be applied effectively so that the eu can take big steps towards an increasingly fairer, more united and more equal europe. since i do not agree with the full content of the rapporteur's proposal, particularly in view of what i have said in the third paragraph, i have decided to abstain, even though i consider this matter to be of the utmost importance and great sensitivity, and even though i believe that women's rights should play a fundamental role in the legislative architecture of the union and the member states.
‒ the purpose of this resolution is to call on the commission to adopt immediately a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020, addressing gender equality issues in the areas of violence against women, working time, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations, and in line with the international agenda, namely the outcome document beijing +20 of 2015 and the new framework for gender equality and women's empowerment: transforming the lives of girls and women through the eu's external relations (2016-2020) . the resolution contains some criticism of the commission work programme for 2016, published in november 2015, for not making any specific reference to the eu strategy for gender equality post-2015. calls for an eu summit on gender equality and women's rights to identify progress made and renew commitments in the framework of the next epsco council meeting to be held in march 2016 and calls on the commission to cooperate with the european parliament and the council;
madam president, commissioner, we must not lose sight of the fact that the negotiations between the european institutions and the kosovar authorities are also negotiations for the sake of cooperation between kosovo and serbia and therefore for the sake of peace and fraternity in europe. they are inseparable from the future integration of serbia itself into the european union. this process proves that the spirit of the european project is alive despite the anxieties the union has experienced in recent times and also proves that the future of europe depends on a culture of responsibility and commitment. i would like to commend the efforts and personal commitment of federica mogherini in the framework of the high-level dialogues for the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina, initiated in 2012 by her predecessor. the benefits of this dialogue are already visible in the daily lives of the kosovar and serbian peoples, with the mutual recognition of diplomas and significant advances in freedom of movement, to give just two examples. the path is clearly that way. on the other hand, the poverty of the kosovars and their lack of prospects is a cause of great scepticism and disillusionment. a rate of unemployment approaching 50% and mass emigration are undermining the hopes of the population. more reasons to encourage the implementation of the cooperation and stabilisation agreement between the european union and kosovo, because it involves improving the living conditions of the population and gradually bringing the kosovars closer to european values.
mr president, the union and the member states have failed to act as a cohesive and coherent europe to help the libyan transitional governments in the task that should have been a priority, without which it was obvious that neither a state nor a government would function. the building of security forces under national command, which meant demobilizing the militias, preventing them from being infiltrated by criminal and terrorist networks, exploiting gaddafi's arsenals in the arms bazaar, which we still hear about today from the president of nigeria. the union and its member states continue to bury their heads in the sand, reducing everything to tribal fighting between libyans, continue to deny the proxy war being waged on libyan soil by rival sunni powers, egypt and the emirates behind saudi arabia, which funds salafist groups, against turkey and qatar, which support the muslim brotherhood. proxy war that orchestrates the disintegration of libya and the expansion of daesh and other terrorist groups on the ground. the libyan political agreement that the representative of the un secretary-general, martin kobler, has been able to negotiate offers an opportunity that the libyan people and the european union and the region cannot afford to lose. it's an in extremis opportunity to stop the escalation of violence. a terrorist attack organised from libya against europeans will be met with retaliation and no one will be able to control the impacts of an external military intervention. for the libyan political agreement and the government of national accord to be vindicated, it is vital that the european union immediately impose targeted sanctions against any libyan individual or organization abroad that boycotts the agreement and the government. europe must assume that it is its duty and vital interest to invest in security in libya. the eradication of terrorist sanctuaries implies working on the demobilization, disarmament and reintegration of any militia in the fight against arms and human trafficking and on the training of libyan security forces under unified command. without the restoration of security, there will be no democratic transition in libya, no capacity for governance, no respect for human rights, no control of migration flows, no oil management. the union must be engaged in libya and take an interest in the libyan people. only then will you ensure your safety and the safety of the region.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr minister, first of all i would like to welcome mitzy capriles who is here with us today and i thank her for her presence. on december 6th, venezuela took its place in the ranks of democratic nations. i had the good fortune to witness in caracas that historic day. i regret, however, that this parliament has not approved the deployment of an official delegation, contrary to what the minister said, the european union has not been doing well in this matter. venezuelans have put their trust in the forces opposing president maduro's regime, and that trust has translated into a clear majority for the opposition. this is an indisputable fact. for two decades venezuelans have felt the oppression of an absolute power with attacks on freedom of association and expression and all kinds of repression, with murders and arbitrary detentions, which still today overflow the prisons with political prisoners. anyway, a situation worthy of a real horror movie but b-list. the new assembly, despite threats of blockade from the politicized supreme court of justice, was confronted with a humanitarian crisis as a result of the dramatic economic and social situation in the country, with the declaration of a national emergency and the food and health sector. mr president, at this crucial moment in its history, venezuela needs the firm support of the european union to ensure that the electoral results and the principle of separation of powers are respected. if we hesitate at this crucial moment to pass the amnesty and national reconciliation law and to change the political model that has contributed to this crisis, what we will be calling into question, mr president and ladies and gentlemen, is surely the rule of law and democracy itself.
madam president, it is true that free elections have taken place in venezuela, but it is not entirely true that president maduro has fully recognized the election results. it has always reacted very badly to these election results, from the outset with the idea of creating a kind of parallel parliament, calling into question the fundamental principles of a representative democracy, continuing to call into question the principle of the separation of powers, which is an elementary principle of any liberal democracy. permanent attempts to suffocate venezuelan civil society by keeping political figures in prison for the simple reason of disagreeing with the current power in venezuela. we are therefore not faced with a democratic regime that should not be criticized, and our role as european parliamentarians must be, first of all, to express our solidarity with our colleagues who have just been elected to parliament in venezuela and to tell them that we are with them at this difficult moment in a process which must be a process for venezuela to regain political democracy. it is true that we can talk about other dimensions, economic and social, but without this political dimension there is no democracy that has the right to be called that, and that is what is happening today in venezuela.
madam president, mr minister, strengthening the european union's political and economic relations with latin america must be a priority of our foreign policy. this priority is based on the complementarity of values between these two large regions. and that's why it's so important to accelerate the trade agreement with mercosur, in the hope that one day venezuela might join it. but in this context the european union and this parliament cannot but express their profound democratic indignation at the systematic violations of the rule of law and international law that have taken place in that country. the venezuelan government has to respect its constitution and the rights of its citizens and in particular of the citizens and the bodies that have been elected. it is important to strengthen the european union's cooperation with venezuela, but there is a red line, the guarantee of legal certainty and the functioning of the rule of law in venezuela. mr minister, the high representative and the presidency have our full support in continuing this path of work and defence of human rights in venezuela.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, the united nations convention on the transparency of investor-state arbitration exists for two reasons: because there was a serious problem of lack of transparency in arbitration systems and because the european union took the lead in the fight for a convention capable of solving the problem. it is incomprehensible that now that this convention exists and eight member states have ratified it, endless divisions prevent the european union from ratifying a convention which it itself has demanded. this problem has to be solved. this convention is necessary and there are consequences for delaying its entry into force. i therefore want to encourage the dutch presidency to follow up on the commitments it has made here and to take concrete initiatives, not only to convince the member states to sign this convention, but also to ensure that these new rules apply to the energy charter treaty, whose dispute settlement system is in dire need of more transparency.
madam president, the events of the cologne new year are extremely serious. the sexual assaults on women, the characteristics of an apparent coordinated action and the number of actors involved define a framework which requires a careful and exhaustive examination of the facts that occurred to ensure an objective analysis, free from the extreme right-wing instrumentalizations and racist generalizations that have sought to plague these and other events. it is noted that the commission itself rejected on 13 january the false associations between the migration flow and the criminal acts in cologne. it is absolutely essential to focus the discussion on what is really the underlying problem: the shameful sexual assault on women, violence in any form against women. the answer lies in the fight against the aggressors, along with the firm fight against the transmission of values that personify women as objects. the answer lies in the unequivocal affirmation of women's rights, the affirmation of their dignity, and the establishment of effective equality policies, something which the european union insists on neglecting.
mr president, commissioner, i come from a country which has two autonomous regions in the middle of the atlantic ocean. one of them, the autonomous region of the azores, is made up of nine islands, which creates a new problem, that of double insularity, that of the displacement of populations between these islands. this region has thousands of emigrants, mostly in the united states and canada. some of these emigrants take less time from the united states and canada to the main island of the azores than to travel between them. in addition, both autonomous regions have great difficulties in accessing the mainland, given the high transport costs. last year i invited two schools from the autonomous region of the azores, and from one of them some children had to take four planes to brussels. i ask the commission to take measures to support the inhabitants of these two regions, because there will be no real europe, no real european construction, without cohesion, without these people being able to move around in their own country and within the european union itself.
mr president, today the people of europe are suffering the consequences of austerity policies, of support for the financial sector and the large economic groups, and it is in this context that island regions are most penalized because they are the ones who are disadvantaged in the context of complete liberalization of the economy. in portugal we have two archipelagos, the azores and madeira, which suffer doubly from insularity and from the effects of the troika and its adjustment programme of recent years. in the azores and madeira, people have tried to overcome adversity by continuing to produce and trying to survive in this liberalized world. however, as we have had the opportunity to see firsthand through a visit by the committee on agriculture of this parliament, we cannot continue to pretend that we are going to solve the problem by creating a european year of the islands or by believing that tourism will solve all the problems. in the name of territorial cohesion, specific policies are needed to support productive activities, particularly in the field of transport, so that islanders can have the same opportunities as the other peoples of europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, five years after the first pro-democracy demonstrations in bahrain, we continue to receive reports of intense political repression, including arbitrary arrests, torture, violence against protesters and political opponents and other human rights violations, such as court sentences against activists such as nabil rajab, who was just last month sentenced to six months in prison for a tweet. the use of anti-terrorism laws to silence activists and political opponents is common practice in repressive regimes, but we are particularly concerned about a law of this type that was used to sentence to death mohamed ramadan who was allegedly tortured. the reintroduction of the moratorium on the death penalty is urgent as a first step towards its abolition in bahrain, and we are already appealing for a royal pardon to commute the sentence of mohamed ramadan. i hope that the member states and the high representative will also be heard in this request. it is urgent that the un special rapporteur on torture be allowed to visit bahrain and be given unrestricted access to all detainees and all places of detention. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all the activists in bahrain who are unjustly imprisoned, including those i know, such as ibrahim sharif, abduladi al khawaja, mohamed al-mokhtar and sheikh ali salman.
madam chairman, five journalists and booksellers from mighty current, a publishing house known for publishing works critical of the chinese regime, have mysteriously disappeared in recent months in hong kong in conditions that look like they're straight out of an agatha christie novel. when hong kong was returned to chinese rule, it adopted the "one country, two systems" model, and this formula allowed the preservation of freedoms of expression unknown in the rest of china. however, with the takeover of mr. xi jinping in 2012, the repression and persecution of publishers and booksellers in the territory intensified. the conditions of the disappearance of these five publishers seem to cross an intolerable border: chinese security agencies operating in the former british colony on the fringes and unbeknownst to the legitimate authority of hong kong. the european union must firmly support hong kong civil society, which has fought so courageously to defend its freedoms and cultural identity, and clearly demonstrate to the chinese regime that these values are not subject to the logic of the world trade organisation or the statutes of a market economy.
‒ the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, which has been making progress towards european integration, including important steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo. serbia has also embarked on an ambitious reform programme and should pursue systemic and socioeconomic reforms decisively and directly, paying particular attention to young people in the implementation of its reforms. progress made by serbia in the business environment, in reducing the budget deficit and in the labour market, notably in terms of labour law and employment policy, deserves a mention, as does progress in economic reforms, which have improved the country's fiscal situation. i voted in favour of the report.
‒ this report is part of the process of serbia's accession to the european union. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. a number of measures are listed as conditions for serbia's accession to the eu: reforms in the judicial system, recognition by serbia of the existence of kosovo, labour reforms, privatisations, public sector restructuring, protection of private investment, budgetary reform, impositions on the functioning of the institutions, among others. the great powers of nato and the eu want to force the serbian people to accept the violation of their territorial integrity and sovereignty by accepting kosovo as a state. the process of serbia's accession to the eu is one of many ongoing processes which demonstrate how the sowing of ethnic divisions, the aggression and support for the destruction of yugoslavia were aimed at economic domination of the resulting countries, their natural resources, the exploitation of their workers and the destruction of the immense social achievements of the peoples. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on serbia. the eu should continue to promote its policy of appeasement in relation to serbia-kosovo relations. it is important that serbia continues its reform programme and remains an important partner of the eu in the balkans.
‒ serbia, like all countries aspiring to join the eu, should be assessed on its own merits as regards the fulfilment, application and respect of the same set of criteria and that the dedication of these countries to the necessary reforms and the quality of these will determine the timing of accession. the serbian government's continued commitment to the european integration process is noteworthy, with the launch of an ambitious programme of progressive reforms covering the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit and the labour market. i would highlight the important steps taken by serbia in favour of the normalisation of relations with kosovo, which led to the first agreement on the principles governing the normalisation of relations in 2013 and to four important agreements in 2015. i consider it important that serbia improves its judicial system, making it independent and impartial; strengthens the fight against corruption and organised crime; and extends the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to the most vulnerable groups, in particular with regard to non-discrimination for people with disabilities, people living with hiv/aids and lgbti people.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the republic of serbia with the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we highlight the reforms in the judicial and political system, serbia's recognition of kosovo's existence, labour reforms, privatisation, public sector restructuring, protection of private investment, budgetary reform, impositions within the framework of the functioning of the institutions, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. successive enlargements have enabled the large economic and financial groups to expand the community's internal market, allowing them to dominate new economies and creating new opportunities for the exploitation of a skilled and low-cost labour force. the statements made by the authorities and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are unacceptable, depriving the people of their legitimate right to decide their future, where they want to live, the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies for economic and social development. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it recognises the continued commitment of the serbian government to the european integration process. i therefore agree that serbia should pursue systemic and socioeconomic reforms decisively and directly, and continue the preparatory work aimed at the effective start of accession negotiations. i welcome this report, which contains essential considerations for the development of this process, particularly with regard to the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation, good neighbourly relations, energy, the environment and transport. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i consider that it contains essential recommendations for serbia's european integration process, more specifically with regard to the strict application of the legislation and policies necessary for alignment with eu standards.
‒ the eu has been reaffirming that the priorities of the european union are related to growth and jobs, alongside investment in peace, democracy, prosperity, security and stability across the continent, with enlargement a process that takes a backseat in this legislature. however, serbia's eu accession negotiations started in june 2013 and the progress made by serbia towards european integration was assessed, in particular the compliance of its reforms with the rule of law principles. given the significant and important progress made by serbia, it can be said that the negotiations are moving in a positive direction. the respect and protection of human rights, in particular its stance on the migrant crisis, the full respect shown for the protection of the most vulnerable groups, as well as the effective application of european legislation, and the efforts made by this country with regard to its position in regional cooperation and the establishment of good neighbourly relations, are noteworthy. i am therefore pleased to see that serbia has taken measures which are bringing it closer to the eu, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we are not following a broad set of considerations on serbia's eu integration process. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not forced to rely on the eu for their livelihood. the reforms in the judicial and political system, serbia's recognition of kosovo, labour reforms, privatisation, restructuring of the public sector, protection of private investment, budgetary reform, the imposition of the functioning of the institutions, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. successive enlargements of the eu have enabled the large economic and financial groups to expand the community's internal market, allowing the dominance of new economies, creating new opportunities for the exploitation of a skilled and low-cost labour force. the statements made by the authorities and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are unacceptable, depriving the people of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies for economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ 110 of the 193 un member states, including 23 of the 28 eu member states, recognise the independence of kosovo, which has signed a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with the eu. progress is noted with regard to the conclusion of agreements in the framework of the normalisation process between kosovo and serbia, in particular on the establishment of the association/community of serb-majority municipalities in kosovo, on energy, on the mitrovicë/mitrovica bridge, on telecommunications, on car insurance and on the judicial system. the high number of people disappeared during the war and the little progress made in this regard remain a matter of concern and states should cooperate in this area, bearing in mind that full cooperation in establishing the truth about missing persons is essential for mutual reconciliation.
‒ the report comes in the context of developments in kosovo, including the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) signed between the eu and kosovo in october 2015. it arises in the context of negotiations for kosovo's future eu accession and, in so doing, challenges the usual role of impositions (which includes 'dissuasion of migration') in the usual posture of interference. the report welcomes the signature of the eea which we were against. it is noted that several eu member states do not recognise kosovo's independence. the report does not deal with, as we would have hoped, issues such as the imposition by the eu of macroeconomic policies which are profoundly contrary to the interests of the peoples of the region; the condemnation of the formalization of relations with a territory as if it were a legitimate country, after the very serious precedent set in international law by the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, which the eu has sought to legitimize. an illegal decision, which we do not recognize, which created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the us, nato and the eu. a flagrant violation of international law, the helsinki final act, un resolutions on the issue, among others.
in writing. ‒ i have tabled my abstention vote on the 2015 report on kosovo. i welcome the progress made in 2015 with regard to the conclusion of agreements in the framework of the normalisation process between kosovo and serbia. however, i still have some doubts about the process of european integration of kosovo as it is going on, which is why i abstain from this vote.
‒ kosovo unilaterally declared its independence in 2008, after the failure of international negotiations. several countries, such as portugal, france, germany, and the united states, have recognized it as a sovereign state. however, there are still countries like spain, russia that consider kosovo part of serbia. for the reasons set out above, kosovo is only a potential candidate for the union. however, the union has been supporting its economic and social development not only through financial assistance but also through the presence of eulex in the territory, with the aim of implementing reforms towards the rule of law, and the presence of the special representative of the union for kosovo. i congratulate kosovo and serbia on the progress they have made. the dialogue between pristina and belgrade must continue in order to maintain stability in the region. however, there are still elements in the judicial sphere that undermine the implementation of the rule of law, in particular the full independence, transparency, impartiality and efficiency of judges and magistrates.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is part of the continuing formalisation of relations with a territory, kosovo, as if it were a legitimate country, following the very serious precedent set in international law by the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo. an illegal decision which we do not recognise, which created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the us, nato and the eu, which they have tried to legitimize at all costs. the self-proclamation of kosovo as a state violates the helsinki final act and several united nations resolutions - notably security council resolution 1244 of june 1999, which enshrines respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of serbia over kosovo. we voted against it.
‒ i welcome this document, which addresses the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo, signed on 27 october 2015. i voted in favour of this document because it states the need for the government of kosovo to focus on implementing the comprehensive reforms necessary to meet its obligations under the eea, which aims to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and to establish a free trade area as a concrete step towards kosovo's economic integration into the european union. i also welcome the increased efforts and firm commitment to the fight against terrorism. however, i agree that the progress made in the area of freedom of expression and the media, and the efforts to protect and guarantee in practice the rights of all ethnic minorities in kosovo, are still insufficient. in this sense, i voted in favour of this document which calls on kosovo to follow the lines of the eu's common foreign and security policy.
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the proposal to include the following areas: the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement in october 2015, the progress achieved in the process of normalising relations between kosovo and serbia, the political and economic reforms towards european integration and the adoption of a human rights legislative package were among the highlights. the commission's efforts to create a package of support for reforms and regional cooperation in the western balkans with a view to their accession to the european union, and to strengthen work on the visa liberalisation process and support for the visa exemption regime for kosovo are also noteworthy. there is still a lot of work to be done, but the content of this motion for a resolution is clear in itself as regards the development of the integration process and, in that respect, it deserves my support and my vote in favour.
in the light of the recent events in kosovo, the european union is proposing to extend the mandate of the european union to kosovo, which is a territory of the former yugoslavia. an illegal decision, which we do not recognize, which created a protectorate through aggression and military occupation by the us, nato and the eu. we do not recognise the existence of kosovo as a state. this existence violates the helsinki final act and several un resolutions on this issue - notably security council resolution 1244 of june 1999, which enshrines respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of serbia over kosovo. that is why we voted against it.
‒ the arab spring, which swept across much of northern africa, marked the end of decades of dictatorial regimes. libya was another example of this break with the past. yet, almost five years after the assassination of gaddafi, the country is still reeling from war, hunger and torture and a state far from consolidated. it will certainly not be possible in the immediate future to stabilize this country and consolidate the regime transition. the consequences for its citizens and for the region, including the european union, are far-reaching. its territory has become a haven for internally displaced persons seeking refuge in other territories; a haven for terrorist organisations such as daesh and al-qaeda; a hub for human and arms trafficking. for peace and prosperity to be possible in libya, it is therefore crucial to make efforts at international level, starting with the legitimization of the democratically elected bodies. on the other hand, the various tribal alliances within themselves must be able to resolve their differences. the union and the member states in particular can only be asked to make a full commitment. if for no other reason, it is because the root of the refugee crisis is also being attacked.
‒ the situation in libya remains unstable and since august 2014, two political bodies (the internationally recognised cr in tobruk and the newly established cgn in tripoli) have been claiming the leadership of the country, both supported by several heavily armed militias linked to regions, cities and tribes with different backgrounds. the political vacuum and the absence of a stable government have been exploited by daesh, whose ranks include foreign and returning libyan terrorists after fighting in iraq and syria, and have been conducting major offensives against important oil facilities in libya, with the aim of increasing their war chest and controlling the huge oil facilities. i therefore condemn the destabilising terrorist attacks by daesh against the libyan people, including minorities, as well as against the oil infrastructure and any attempt to disrupt the process of stabilising the country.
in the resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's military aggression is not used as a pretext for military action. an imperialist war of aggression that has created a huge tragedy for the civilian population, with thousands of deaths and the destruction of the social and economic infrastructure of this country. it also omits the responsibility of the major powers for the spread of terrorist groups in the region, in particular through the continued sale and export of arms. we are facing an imperialist offensive against the arab world which confirms the neo-colonialist stance of the west towards north africa and the middle east, motivated by geostrategic control and exploitation of the immense riches of the region, in particular its oil reserves. finally, the resolution opens the door and legitimises the possibility of a new external military intervention in libya, which all indications are that it is being prepared. we reaffirm the right of the libyan people to decide their own destiny, their right to sovereignty and peace, free from outside interference. we voted against it.
‒ i voted against this resolution because it continues to insist on a solution for libya which involves military intervention, under a nato mandate, together with the un, the member states and regional partners, with the aim not only of strengthening the security of the country but also of controlling all the border territory and waters of libya, including the flows of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, in a context where the eu has enormous responsibilities under the current situation in the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya. since the fall of the dictatorial regime of colonel muammar gaddafi, libya has experienced times of great tension and instability. the political vacuum and lack of a stable government have been exploited by daesh and other extremist forces, which threaten peace and security throughout the region as well as in europe. the eu should be particularly attentive to developments in libya and strengthen the necessary support to the country in the fight against terrorism.
‒ i believe that the international community should support libya in its efforts to implement the agreement successfully, and i hope that member states and international institutions will only have official contacts with parties to the libyan political agreement in order to ensure the transition to a democratic, stable and inclusive libya. i fully support the new libyan authorities' fight against terrorists in order to ensure the necessary protection of the people and critical economic infrastructure in libya, considering that economic recovery is a decisive factor for libya's democratic transition. the european union and the united nations should assist libya in state-building, security and peacekeeping, as well as training on emergency and disaster response capacity building, respect for human rights and the rule of law. i believe that a secure and politically stable libya is an imperative need for the libyan people, but also for the security of the entire region, as well as for the european union.
in the resolution adopted by parliament, the european parliament blatantly omits its and the eu's responsibilities in the military aggression, which was legitimised here in 2011, and in the very serious problems of political and economic instability that plague the region and which have resulted from the foreign intervention spearheaded by nato, the us and the eu. an imperialist war of aggression that has created a huge tragedy for the civilian population, with thousands of deaths and the destruction of the social and economic infrastructure of this country. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it also omits the responsibility of the major powers for the spread of terrorist groups in the region, in particular through the continued sale and export of arms. on the other hand, the resolution opens the door and legitimizes the possibility of a new external military intervention in libya, which all indications are that it is being prepared. we reaffirm the right of the libyan people to decide their own destiny, their right to sovereignty and peace, free from outside interference. we voted against it.
‒ the power vacuum introduced by the arab spring, which culminated in the overthrow of the libyan government of muammar gaddafi and his regime, has been exploited by tribal militias and islamic-inspired jihadist groups. in this context, tensions arising from the dispute between islamist-inspired radical factions on the one hand, and secular and liberal forces on the other, give rise to growing civil unrest, resulting in the displacement of some 440,000 people who, in the hope of escaping armed conflict and poverty, have crossed the mediterranean since 2014. this exodus of refugees is aggravated by the influx from the conflict zones in the middle east and constitutes a humanitarian disaster requiring concerted action by the european union and its member states. in order to address the political instability in the region and the growing east-west divide in libya, it is necessary for the eu to develop a clear and coordinated strategy to support the political transition. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ building on the un-backed libyan political agreement, which was signed on 17 december 2015, this resolution stresses the importance of the united nations, the european union, the african union and the arab league member states supporting the libyans in their efforts to implement the said agreement successfully. i voted in favour of this document because it condemns the destabilising terrorist attacks by daesh against the libyan people. in this respect, i agree that economic recovery is an important step towards libya's democratic transition and that special importance should be given to the new libyan authorities against terrorists in order to ensure the necessary protection of the people and critical economic infrastructure in libya. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it stresses the importance of the international community stepping up humanitarian funding to respond to the most urgent needs of people severely affected by the conflict in libya, and to do so member states should respect their commitments to the eu emergency trust fund for africa.
‒ libya has been affected by strong internal instability since the fall of dictator muammar gaddafi in 2011, and this political vacuum and lack of government stability has been exploited by daexe and other extremist forces threatening peace and security throughout the region. the spread of terrorist groups such as daesh in the country poses a serious threat to the security of libya, north africa, the eu itself and even the rest of the world, and it is therefore essential to take measures to stop this wave of violence. given the current situation of gross systematic violation of human rights, which has worsened in recent months, the call for an end to violence is essential to curb the growing presence of extremist organisations and movements in libya. the eu-tunisia cooperation is also an important factor to be taken into account in this peace process, as is the continued support of the eu and the international community in the form of humanitarian, financial and political aid. i support the measures contained in the motion for a resolution as a whole and therefore vote in favour.
the european union is also calling on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. libya is in danger of falling into a new conflict where there is foreign intervention in the country. the instability we are experiencing is the result of an imperialist war of aggression which has created a great tragedy for the civilian population, with thousands of deaths and the destruction of the social and economic infrastructure of this country. the war in libya is part of a new imperialist offensive against the arab world, which is seeking to re-colonize africa. libya has the largest confirmed oil reserves in africa and the tenth largest worldwide. the new foreign intervention and conflict are only intended to strengthen the control of the imperialist powers over the country and its wealth. we must reaffirm the right of the libyan people to decide their own destiny, their right to sovereignty and peace. we must condemn any further foreign intervention.
in writing. - i support the european parliament's resolution on the special situation of the islands brought to us by the committee on regional development. i recognize the complex situation faced by many island regions and their geographical, natural and demographic constraints. i agree that the commission should be asked to carry out a thorough study of the additional costs incurred by the characteristics of insularity in terms of the transport system for people and goods, energy supply and access to markets, in particular for smes; i also agree with the need for better maritime connectivity, better access to ports and better air transport services. i would stress, however, as has been said on several occasions by mrs sofia ribeiro, that better attention to the problems of island regions cannot be translated into less attention or even disinvestment in the outermost regions, which are specifically provided for and protected in the european treaties.
‒ the special situation of islands warrants a series of measures which take account of the permanent natural and geographical limitations of these regions which distinguish them from the mainland territories. the need for better maritime connectivity and air transport services is key to attracting investment, creating new jobs and reducing the costs of air and sea transport of people and goods. the situation of agriculture, livestock and fisheries, the impacts of climate change, tourism, local production, the huge potential of wind, solar and ocean energy, the impact of the economic crisis, the investments in infrastructure needed to ensure broadband access on islands and the promotion of innovation and competitiveness in these regions are other measures to be taken into account. i voted in favour.
‒ this resolution focuses on the particular situation of islands, as peripheral regions situated on the eu's external borders, being particularly susceptible to the constraints arising from globalisation, demography (very significant depopulation), climate change, energy supply and the migration crisis. this situation is most serious in countries where troika intervention is taking place. these already more fragile regions suffer from the eu's general disinvestment in cohesion strategies. the resolution proposes that the european structural and investment funds be used, in synergy with other funding, to strengthen cohesion in these territories. good intentions, but unfortunately few means. some of the concerns raised by the european commission's approach to the insular situation are: the understanding of islands as a homogeneous territorial group, from the point of view of intervention, without taking into account regional specificities and the strategy of the member states in which they are inserted for these regions; the danger of some bureaucratization, with little concrete action and, above all, a shortage of effective means (in particular financial). the experience of portugal and the implementation of european policies on the islands shows that there are other factors to be unlocked, such as the agricultural (milk) issue in the azores and the creation of social and economic diversification responses and services that can contribute to greater cohesion. this resolution is clearly insufficient, but it is generally positive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the special situation of the islands. the island regions have common features which distinguish them from the mainland territories. it is extremely important that the eu establishes a strategic framework for islands with the aim of ensuring their sustainable development. in view of the specific situation of the islands, a financial reinforcement in the next multiannual financial framework will be of the utmost importance.
‒ the committee on regional development wanted to analyse and discuss the preponderance of islands in the european territory, using article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) which recognises the specific natural and permanent geographical constraints due to the situation of islands. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is necessary to improve maritime connectivity, to increase the development of ports and air transport services, and to promote the development of sustainable tourism, in addition to seasonal tourism, focusing on the promotion of cultural heritage and specific artisanal economic activities. it should also be noted that the islands have been experiencing strong climate change, including an increasing number of natural disasters, and have a strong potential for renewable energy and investments in the maritime economy. however, it is important to ensure that any existing support for islands can never undermine that already existing for the outermost regions which have economic, social and natural constraints much deeper than islands.
‒ the special situation of islands, peripheral regions situated on the eu's external borders, which are more susceptible to the constraints of globalisation, demographic fluctuations, climate change, energy supply or the migration crisis, is highlighted. this is a reality which is aggravated in the countries affected by the troika. regions of great fragility suffering from the eu's general disinvestment in cohesion strategies. the resolution proposes to strengthen cohesion in these territories by mobilising the european structural and investment funds, in synergy with other funding. expressed "wills" that are not matched by means. the european commission's approach to the situation of insularity is subject to certain limitations: the understanding of islands as a homogeneous territorial group from the point of view of intervention, without taking into account regional specificities and the strategy of the respective member states; the danger of bureaucratizing the mechanisms, which will result in limited concrete action and a shortage of means, including financial ones. the experience of portugal and of european policies for insularity shows that there are other factors to unlock, such as the agricultural (milk) issue in the azores and the creation of social and economic diversification responses and services that can contribute to greater cohesion. this resolution, although clearly insufficient, is generally positive.
in writing. this european parliament resolution expands on and emphasises the concerns expressed in the question to the commission on the insularity of the nuts-2 and nuts-3 territories of the european union. the rapporteur believes that the specific situation of the islands has not been taken into account in the preparation of the proposal for the current multiannual financial framework and that it is therefore essential to define the terms which, in relation to insularity, will allow the next multiannual financial framework to be prepared. in this connection, parliament hereby calls for a clear definition of the types of permanent natural or demographic constraints faced by island regions and for the procedures envisaged by the commission to respond to the permanent disadvantages faced by islands to be determined. in the present case, too, the wording of the treaties must be respected, which, in article 174 tfeu, recognises the special attention required by island territories. in the light of the foregoing and considering that the report is in line with the main objectives of cohesion policy in general and the needs of the autonomous regions of portugal in particular, i voted in favour of the report now under consideration.
‒ this document calls on the commission to provide a clear definition of the type of permanent geographical, natural and demographic constraints that may affect island regions, with reference to article 174 tfeu. firstly, i voted in favour of this resolution because it refers to a set of measures which are crucial for island regions: greater maritime connectivity, better access to ports; better air services; low taxes and policies to reduce red tape as key incentives to attract investment; the development of sustainable tourism; and creating synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the other union instruments. secondly, because it agrees with the recommendations addressed to the commission, in particular the preparation of the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework, in which the specific situation of the islands should be taken into account. thirdly, because there is no attempt to equate the concept of islands with that of the outermost regions (ors), recognizing that these have greater constraints and limitations in all the above-mentioned areas. i therefore agree that the member states and regional and local authorities need to play an important role in the sustainable development strategies of the islands.
‒ it is well known that island regions have common characteristics which are permanently manifested and distinguish them from continental territories, and therefore present permanent natural and geographical limitations due precisely to their insular status. it is important that there are economic indicators other than gdp and better connectivity by sea and air, which can ensure a more balanced territorial development and a greater competitiveness of these regions. i therefore believe it is important to equate the existence of a european strategic framework for islands, which establishes synergies between the various financial instruments of the union, and a strengthening of the role of the member states and regional and local authorities, which respects the principle of subsidiarity and ensures their sustainable development, economic growth and job creation.
in writing. the development of an economic and social model capable of promoting social and territorial cohesion is a cornerstone of the european union. as cultural, economic and territorial diversity is one of the greatest assets of the european area, the intensification of differentiated policies in response to different realities tends to make a positive contribution to the desired harmonious development. the challenge of taking account of the characteristics and particularities of island territories and of identifying immediately those which are the sources of permanent disadvantage makes perfect sense. economic, social and territorial disparities should be given special attention. the densification of article 174 is necessary and may become significant. the way forward is therefore appropriate.
in writing. ‒ today, the people of europe are suffering the consequences of austerity policies and support for the financial sector and the big economic groups. it is in this context that island regions are most penalized because they are the ones who are disadvantaged in a context of complete economic liberalisation. in portugal we have two archipelagos, the azores and madeira, which suffer doubly from insularity and from the effects of the troika and its adjustment programme of recent years. in the azores and madeira, the people have been trying to overcome adversity, continuing to produce and trying to survive in this liberalized world. however, as we have had the opportunity to see firsthand through a visit by the committee on agriculture to this parliament, we cannot continue to pretend that we are going to solve the problems by creating a european year of the islands, or to believe that tourism will solve all the problems. in the name of territorial cohesion, specific policies are needed to support productive activities, particularly in the field of transport, so that islanders can have the same opportunities as the other peoples of europe.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period is the main investment instrument covering all eu regions, contributing to sustainable bottom-up growth by supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions. local and regional authorities have a key role to play, both in the esi funds and in the design and implementation of eu strategies, in helping to balance the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion with the impact of union policies on their territories. i support this resolution which recognises the importance of these synergies and complementarities between the esi funds and other eu programmes, raising the role of local authorities in achieving this objective and recognising the various challenges facing regions such as globalisation, energy security, migratory flows, climate change and the intrinsic specificities of their territorial nature.
‒ eu cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions. the role of local and regional authorities in designing and implementing eu strategies is key to achieving these assumptions, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to community groups.
‒ this resolution addresses the role of local and regional authorities in promoting regional development and territorial and social cohesion. cities are highly concentrated areas (more than 75% of the eu population lives in urban areas) with growing needs in terms of political, social, economic and cultural organisation, with new demands from both institutions and different sectors of the population. in the european context, there are cities which, on their own, have more population and infrastructure than certain eu countries or regions. the city context is thus becoming increasingly important in the management of public affairs, not only because of its material and territorial dimension, but also because cities correspond to spaces of greater proximity and mobilization, of citizenship, gaining an important political expression. there is a negative trend towards direct communication between the european commission and the cities, without the intermediation of the member states and the necessary definition of priorities and strategies for their regions. the creation of two city-specific funding lines community-led local development and integrated territorial investments is intended to contribute to better access to finance for cities. the purpose of cohesion policies should be to give priority to the member states and their regional development strategies rather than to an agenda promoting the eu and its institutions.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions, and in which its bottom-up governance model has proven effective in the process of sustainable growth, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies. these synergies and complementarities between the esi funds and other programmes, and their opening up to local and regional decision-making, should be encouraged, as they constitute the best strategy for implementing the objectives of growth and improving the quality of life of its citizens. i voted yes.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esif). eu cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period represents the main investment instrument covering all eu regions, with the advantage of reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between eu member states and their regions. local and regional authorities have a key role in implementing eu strategies. local authorities are excellent partners in community-based local development. local and regional authorities face many challenges, but they are best placed to deal with challenges such as globalisation, climate change or energy security, taking into account that each locality or region has its own specific needs and characteristics.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process in which the bottom-up approach is more pronounced. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it recognises the importance of multi-level governance in the european political spectrum, strengthening the democratic dimension of the eu and increasing the efficiency of its political action. i also believe that local and regional authorities should be directly involved in the design and implementation of eu strategies, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to community groups.
‒ more than 75% of the eu population lives in an urban context, making cities highly concentrated areas with growing needs in terms of territorial, political, social, economic and cultural organisation. cities are becoming increasingly important in the management of public affairs, not only because of their material and territorial dimension, but also because they are places of greater proximity and mobilization, of citizenship, and they are gaining political expression which cannot be neglected. the creation of two city-specific funding lines community-led local development and integrated territorial investments aims to contribute to better access to finance for cities. we reject the growing tendency to establish direct communication between the european commission and 'the cities', without the intermediation of the member states, in the continuing logic of riding on the sovereignty of the states, seeking to subtract from them their responsibilities and the necessary definition of priorities and strategies for their regions. we reaffirm that cohesion policies must give priority to the member states and their regional development strategies and not to an agenda promoting the eu and its institutions.
‒ the proximity of local and regional authorities to citizens allows for the maximisation of the impact and efficiency of public spending which, under the auspices of the institutions and administrations of these authorities, is geared to local needs, close to the citizens. in this respect, the role of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of european union strategies has been covered by article 5 of the common provisions regulation, which lays down the rules for the five european structural and investment funds (esif). in the light of the above, and in order to be able to guarantee the application of community funds, the commission as guardian of the treaties is expected to strive to strengthen the capacities of local and regional authorities, equipping them to play their intended role. this report comes in the context of the question from the committee on regional development, which, in the matter of strengthening the limited resources of local and regional authorities, asks the commission to define clearly what 'concrete support' measures are envisaged. i voted in favour.
‒ this resolution stresses the key role of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of eu strategies, recognising that the proximity of these authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level is an asset for the eu. i believe it is important to achieve synergies and complementarity between the european structural and investment funds (esif) and other eu programmes, where local and regional authorities can play a useful role in achieving cohesion policy objectives. in this sense, i consider eu cohesion policy to be a good example of multi-level governance, with a bottom-up approach, where local and regional authorities, within the framework of the esi funds, strike a balance between the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and the territorial impact of eu policies. this ensures the fulfilment of the eu's key policy objectives, such as economic growth, social progress and sustainable development. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this document.
‒ cohesion policy reform will be the eu's main investment instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives. acting at regional level as a mechanism of opportunity for a sustainable growth process, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship, economic innovation, the quality of life of citizens and the sustainable development of regions, the role of local and regional authorities in adapting and implementing eu strategies, cohesion policy is fundamental to an effective response to the unique needs and characteristics of each region. multi-level governance thus exemplifies the democratic dimension of the eu and how the measures outlined can have effective results. economic growth, social progress, territorial cohesion and sustainable development are common objectives of the union which will become more feasible thanks to a plurality of governments at local and regional level, allowing the eu and each region to apply the instruments at their disposal effectively. i agree with the measures presented in this motion for a resolution and consider it of the utmost importance to bring local and regional decisions closer to local authorities and citizens, so i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. the resolution under consideration advocates a desirable and necessary impetus for the increase and deepening of development partnerships. in this sense, cohesion policy must involve local and regional actors throughout the process of granting and implementing eu strategies. only then will it be possible to work from the bottom up. the importance of a good coordination of technical means at the different levels - local, regional, national and european - should be taken into account in order to ensure the full benefit of participation and funding opportunities.
‒ the role of cities in contemporary development is indisputable. these are areas of high population representation (more than 75% of eu citizens live in an urban context), with growing needs in terms of their political, social, economic and cultural organisation, and also with new demands, both institutional and from various sectors of the population. the creation of two lines of funding specific to cities - community-led local development and integrated territorial investments - through the european structural and investment funds will help to improve access by cities to important funding which can contribute to job creation, infrastructure improvement, optimisation of services, and to their development and that of their populations. however, there is one issue that must be addressed, which is the tendency to overcome the obstacles to a federalist logic (by the member states or in the definition of the treaties themselves) through direct communication between the european commission and 'the cities', without the intermediation of the member states, with their definition of priorities for their regions.
‒ yemen is experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis as a result of the collapse of the regime and the war raging in its territory. the most elementary norms of international law are not being observed, contributing to the impact of this conflict on the civilian population. schools and hospitals attacked, preventing access to education or health care; entire regions without access to food or water. the territory of this failed state is also home to numerous terrorist organisations, including the most active al-qaeda cell. it is urgent that the international community and the parties involved should be able to call for an end to the conflict. but it is even more urgent to ensure that international humanitarian law is respected, thus preventing innocent people, those civilians who have not already been killed by war, from dying as a result of the conflict. even in war, there are limits.
‒ the current crisis in yemen is the result of the failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. on the other hand, the military intervention in yemen by saudi forces and the use of cluster bombs has led to a dramatic humanitarian situation. since the start of the conflict, at least 5979 people have been killed, about half of them civilians, and 28 208 people have been injured, including hundreds of women and children. i therefore express my concern at the alarming worsening of the humanitarian situation in yemen, characterised by widespread food insecurity and acute malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, doctors and members of humanitarian organisations, destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure caused by the existing internal conflict and the intensification of air strikes by the saudi-led coalition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on yemen. the situation in yemen is worrying and it is important that the eu seeks to find a political solution capable of ensuring peace and stability in yemen.
‒ the crisis in yemen must be treated as a priority and as an urgent matter. the failure to transition to a democratic regime has created conditions for an outbreak of violence, many tribal tensions, widespread insecurity and the economic paralysis of the country. the military intervention in yemen by saudi forces and the use of cluster bombs, which are internationally prohibited, have led to a dramatic humanitarian situation. in yemen, at the beginning of the conflict, at least 5,979 people were killed, about half of them civilians, and 28,208 people were injured. i share the alarming concern about the humanitarian situation in yemen, characterised by widespread food insecurity and acute malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, doctors and members of humanitarian organisations, destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure caused by the existing internal conflict and the intensification of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition, ground fighting and shelling, despite repeated calls for a new cessation of hostilities. it is essential that all parties respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law, ensure the protection of civilians and refrain from directly targeting civilian infrastructure, in particular medical facilities and water supply systems.
‒ the conflicts in yemen that have led to the current humanitarian crisis are the culmination of tensions between the majority zaidite (houthi) and sunni communities, aggravated by the failure of successive governments to exercise a fair sharing of power and an inclusive representation of the aspirations of the population. such tensions have been exploited by saudi arabia and iran, which, in the context of the emptying of power (resulting from the arab spring), support respectively sunnis and zaydis. this interference in yemen's internal affairs has translated directly into airstrikes on yemen's infrastructure and indirectly into clashes between the warring factions, which have resulted in a climate of instability that is exploited by extremist and terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula. i fully agree with the rapporteur on this point and i share the view that only an inclusive and negotiated political solution can restore peace and preserve the sovereignty and independence of yemen. i also join my voice to that of the rapporteur when he calls on the member states to continue to allow the supply of arms to saudi arabia, to cease its activity, given the risk that exports will be used to violate international humanitarian law.
‒ the current conflict in yemen is rooted in the failure of successive governments to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, thus fuelling the discontent and division that have led to the spiral of violence currently experienced in that country. this escalation of violence has serious consequences for the stability of the region, particularly in the horn of africa, the red sea and the middle east itself. some 21.2 million people living in yemen are in need of humanitarian aid and the conflict has already led to numerous serious and systematic violations of human rights. a firm effort at negotiations is essential if respect for international humanitarian law by all parties to the conflict is to become a reality. i think that this is undoubtedly a matter which deserves priority treatment and an effective solution, and i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ we have condemned from the outset the foreign intervention in yemen, notably saudi, which began in march 2015. the saudi military intervention in yemen constitutes a violation of international law and an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of that country, representing yet another example of saudi arabia's interventionist tendency in countries in the region, as demonstrated by the military intervention in bahrain in 2011. the military aggression that yemen has been subjected to has already caused the death of many people and has caused a wave of refugees. this aggression is aimed at imposing the dominance of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and securing control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials, in particular the bab-el-mandeb strait.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, which will be able to provide information on the activities of the european union and its member states. the terrorist acts committed by this organisation against the local population, and especially against religious minorities, must be condemned and combated by the entire international community. this report from the european parliament, which i shall be voting for, is only a small gesture, and it must be seen as a strong signal from this house that all organisations and bodies which have the duty to safeguard the freedoms and guarantees of all human beings should therefore make every effort to combat this organisation and all those who support it and help it to commit these barbaric acts.
‒ the year 2015 was marked by a multiplication of violent conflicts and terrorist acts committed by the islamic state in violation of international humanitarian law and perpetrating under the pretext of a religious ideology acts of extermination of ethnic communities, eradication of cultural heritage and acts of sheer barbarism against human beings. i cannot, cannot and must not allow, as pope francis has said, "a world where the different forms of modern tyranny seek to suppress religious freedom, or reduce it to a subculture without the right to express itself in the public sphere, or even to use religion as a pretext for hatred and brutality". i support this resolution which condemns these acts of war and genocide by the islamic state against ethnic and religious minorities such as yazidis, turkmen, christians, kurds, shiites, sabbateans-mandees, sunni muslims and calls for their prevention and punishment of the perpetrators. this is not a challenge of one or another faith, it is a challenge of humanity, which requires the cooperation of all states and entities. the attack on daesh should be global, not indifference.
‒ since 2014, about 5,000 yazidis have been killed and many others have been tortured or forced to convert to islam. at least 2,000 yazidi women were enslaved and victims of forced marriage and human trafficking. girls as young as six have been raped and yazidi children have been forcibly recruited as soldiers by the self-proclaimed eiil/daesh. more than 150 000 christians fled the advance of the group on several villages, having been robbed of all their possessions, and to this day these christians remain displaced and in precarious conditions in northern iraq. i strongly condemn the flagrant violations of human rights committed by the self-proclaimed 'isis/daesh', which are crimes against humanity and war crimes. the eu and the international community must step up their action to end these human rights violations.
‒ the resolution under consideration blatantly omits the responsibilities that the us and the eu have in the reality we are witnessing today. we would remind you that the same people who are now being singled out as enemies were once allies in destabilising iraq and syria. what is needed is solidarity and support for the syrian and iraqi peoples, victims of the barbaric actions of these groups and of the interference and military aggression perpetrated by nato at the behest of the usa and the eu. we absolutely reject the continuation and deepening of the same processes of interference, aggression and war, motivated by the geostrategic, political and economic interests of the united states and the european powers, under the pretext of fighting it. we strongly condemn the extreme violence, barbarity and terrorist acts perpetrated by the so-called isil/daesh, which the resolution condemns. the escalation of violence which threatens to drag these peoples into ever greater disaster will not end unless respect for the sovereignty and independence of the peoples is guaranteed.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by isis. i strongly condemn the crimes of genocide committed by the self-proclaimed daesh. i share the view that it is essential that the international community provide protection and support, including military support, in accordance with international law, to those targeted by daesh and other terrorist organisations in the middle east.
‒ the extremist and violent ideology of the so-called islamic state, its terrorist acts, its continued widespread and systematic attacks against civilians, its human rights abuses and violations of international humanitarian law, including those perpetrated on religious or ethnic grounds, its eradication of cultural heritage and trafficking in cultural goods constitute a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security. i believe that genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes cannot go unpunished and that their prosecution must be ensured by taking measures at national level, by strengthening international cooperation, and by means of the international criminal court and international criminal justice. i agree with the condemnation of the self-proclaimed 'isis/daesh' and the flagrant human rights violations committed by them, which are crimes against humanity and war crimes and it is imperative to take steps to have them recognised as genocide by the un security council.
in the resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the terrorist groups. but the same text blatantly omits the responsibilities that the us and the eu have in the reality we are witnessing today. it forgets that the same people who are now being singled out as enemies were once allies in destabilizing iraq and syria. what is needed is solidarity and support for the syrian and iraqi peoples, victims of the barbaric actions of these groups and of the interference and military aggression perpetrated by nato at the behest of the usa and the eu. we absolutely reject the continuation and deepening of the same processes of interference, aggression and war, motivated by the geostrategic, political and economic interests of the united states and the european powers, under the pretext of fighting it. the escalation of violence which threatens to drag these peoples into ever greater disaster will not end unless respect for the sovereignty and independence of the peoples is guaranteed. i therefore abstain.
‒ this resolution reflects the european parliament's common position on the genocide of religious minorities by daesh, which in areas under its control and under the guise of jihad, murders, massacres, beats, extorts, kidnaps, tortures and enslaves religious and ethnic minorities who adhere to an interpretation of islam distinct from jihadist fundamentalism, or who simply profess another faith. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing eu-wide framework for the protection of the environment to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in particular, the report denounces the systematic mass murder of the christian, yazidi, turkmen, shiite, shabak, sabaite, kaka'i and sunni religious minorities. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution before us in the hope that the crimes committed in the name of the extremist ideology of the so-called islamic state will be called by its proper name - genocide - and that those who are complicit with them will be branded as criminals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which considers that the persecutions, atrocities and international crimes constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. i agree that the fact that the self-proclaimed eiil/daesh commits genocide crimes against christians and yazidis, which do not agree with their interpretation of islam, demanding the adoption of measures under the 1948 united nations convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. i therefore consider it important that the members of the un security council refer to the international criminal court the investigation of the violations in iraq and syria against christians, yazidis and religious and ethnic minorities by the self-proclaimed 'isis/daesh'. in addition to agreeing to the creation of a permanent special representative for freedom of religion or belief, i would stress that the continued persecution of ethnic and religious groups in the middle east is a major factor in mass migration and internal displacement. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses the importance of the international community providing protection and support, including military support, in accordance with international law, to those targeted by the self-proclaimed 'isis/daesh'.
in writing. - i have given my full support to this motion for a resolution which strongly condemns the self-proclaimed 'islamic state/da'esh' and the unprecedented human rights abuses and serious violations of international humanitarian law and of the world heritage by this terrorist organization. it is urgent that all the contracting parties to the un convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide join in the fight against these war crimes and crimes against humanity, and fully comply with the legal obligations arising from it. the fight against these barbaric acts must be waged without pause and all countries in the international community must make their legal and judicial systems, as well as their own education systems, more effective, with the aim of helping to produce more balanced, fair and responsible citizens. i believe that humanitarian aid organizations operating on the ground should cooperate fully and directly with churches, christian communities and other religious minorities, offering a response that is responsive to the needs of the general population. i also believe that the national and international judicial system must function firmly and without hesitation when confronted with the barbaric acts committed by the self-proclaimed islamic state/da'esh.
the violence and mass murder perpetrated by the so-called isil/da'esh deserves our strongest condemnation. however, the resolution blatantly conceals the responsibilities of the us and the eu in the path that led to the current situation. those who were yesterday's allies - isis - in destabilizing iraq and syria seem today to become enemies. what is needed is solidarity and support for the syrian and iraqi peoples, victims of the barbaric actions of these groups, and a clear rejection of the fact that, under the pretext of combating them, processes of interference, aggression and war are being developed for the strategic interests of the usa with the support of the eu. the end of the escalation of violence, which threatens to drag these peoples into ever greater disaster, requires respect for their national sovereignty and independence, and not new warlike adventures as this proposal seems to indicate in its paragraph 14.
mr president, you spoke about investing in schengen, and i think this is a very good idea, because the current fragmentation of the schengen area requires very urgent action and we need to build up a real european border. but what is a real european border? i think it should not be a wire wall, just building a kind of fortress europe. a real european border with a 21st-century concept should rather be an infrastructure able to organise and develop the relationship between europe and its neighbouring partners in such a way that a real european border should be an advanced infrastructure with logistics and intelligence and able to provide basic safety for european citizens, also to manage flows and provide assistance to refugees with decent standards. so i believe this is a big investment for the future, and i think this kind of investment should be decided quite soon.
madam president, i must say that the outcome of this council on the question of the united kingdom and the agreement reached is frankly satisfactory. i think it is able to maintain the core values of the european union and to meet in some way the concerns that were raised by the uk government and the uk people and so we have a meeting of minds, which is balanced, which is balanced and which is acceptable. what i think is decisive in this matter is that the european union - which must of course not interfere in any way with the sovereign will of the british people, who will decide freely whether to remain in the european union or leave it - should make it very clear that if the choice is to leave, there are consequences - and irreversible consequences. it is essential that british voters and, in fact, all european citizens understand that there are advantages and disadvantages - there are, in fact, good things and bad things - in being in the european union, there are duties and there are rights. and it is therefore fundamental, in my view, that it should be clear that there is no second negotiation and, more than that, what are the consequences of a state leaving the european union. this is critical. with this, i believe that the decisions of the british people, like those of other peoples in europe, if they choose to make them, will be free and sovereign.
in writing. this was another summit where the lack of coordinated european action was evident, and for the umpteenth time the problems persisted and action was urgently needed. i share the concerns, of course, but i would reiterate that this is all due to the lack of action by the member states, including the frontline countries. all of them insist on not realizing that unilateral and unjustified measures, which feed national selfishness, make it increasingly difficult to achieve real european solidarity. the lack of solidarity was also evident in the compromise reached with the united kingdom. without prejudice to the recognition of the importance of the united kingdom as a member of the union, it is not a good principle to deepen the rules of exception, which weaken the fundamental pillars of the union. the european union is an unfinished project with problems to solve. however, we must do this together, and not just so that one member state can say that the problems persist but no longer affect it. beyond the impact of the concrete solutions - or lack thereof - that have emerged from this council, it is the culture of commitment and trust between states, a pillar of the european project, that is most affected.
in writing. the conclusions of the european council are a good illustration of the scale of the crisis, the degree of disintegration, the absence of values and the lack of legitimacy which mark the process of european capitalist integration. the negotiations on the so-called 'brexit' and the 'solution' they have found show that, faced with the worsening crisis and the contradictions between the powers that develop within it, eu leaders have no other answer than to try to 'package' the elements of eu disintegration into a bureaucratic maze and to deepen the reactionary character of their policies. the decisions now announced deny the eu's much-vaunted and much-loved 'freedoms'. the 'freedom of movement' is, after all, as we have always said, the freedom of big capital to carry on its predatory and exploitative activities. when it comes to meeting the interests of big finance capital, resolving contradictions between powers and saving their supranational mechanisms of political and economic domination, the eu's treaties and legislation are subject to change and even subversion. this 'flexibility' now demonstrated in the 'brexit' case contrasts with the unacceptable rigidity and immobility in the face of the very serious social crisis and with the pressures and blackmail that continue to be directed against countries like portugal.
council decisions explicitly and brazenly clarify the essence of eu migration policy - the expulsion of refugees and migrants and the closure of external borders. for a humanitarian problem, they put forward a militaristic and militarized vision and solution. the intervention of nato in close cooperation with frontex, the creation of the so-called european coast guard and the demand that turkey take more measures to prevent the crossing and contain the migratory flow are unacceptable. the decisions are in direct contradiction with international law, which protects and confers rights on refugees and asylum seekers, and they point to a criminal maritime action which could result in thousands of victims. this is the policy of 'solidarity' that the eu has to respond to the so-called migration crisis, a humanitarian tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people fleeing hunger, poverty, persecution and war. a storm that is the direct result of the interventionist action of the eu, in conjunction with the usa and nato, with its policies of interference and military aggression in various conflicts in the middle east and north africa. criminal neo-colonial policies aimed at destabilising the arab world and controlling the geostrategic and economic situation in those regions.
the decisions of the last european council are further proof of the deep crisis in which the eu finds itself. both the decisions on refugees and the decisions on the united kingdom's demands demonstrate the political exhaustion that has been reached and the consequent lack of solutions to the existing problems. in the face of the tragedy of refugees fleeing war provoked and fuelled by the western powers and the european union, the response continues to be primarily repressive measures, treating refugees as common criminals. the demonstrations of joy at nato's participation in the turkish coast guard operations tell us all about the point we have reached. as for the concessions to the united kingdom, it is yet another precedent that shows that in this europe there is no equality between sovereign states. there are rich countries that want to protect their financial sector to which everything is ceded, while ruthlessly falling on less rich countries for zero tolerance.
the report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester aims to transform the european union into a modern social europe, taking into account the current potential and challenges, and highlights the concrete measures that need to be implemented to balance the economic and social dimensions and to promote sustainable social development. it emphasises that economic and financial systems are designed to improve the living conditions of citizens, and this is the main reason why we need to continue to consolidate these systems. the commission also proposes that the member states and the european institutions should ensure, in a responsible manner, the long-term stability of their policy and budgetary choices if we are to move towards sustainable growth. in this context, this report focuses on the need to consolidate public finances and tax systems, given the current fragile economic situation in many member states, and stresses the importance of such consolidation in ensuring social stability, not only in the present times, but also in preparing the future of the younger generations. as we have seen in recent years, the resilience of member states to the financial crisis is linked to the strength of their public finances, and those with the most unstable economies and larger deficits perform the worst. this financial consolidation must be accompanied by growth policies, which translate into a set of structural reforms aimed at competitiveness and the defence of the social role of the states in the face of the structural problems we are facing today. the sustainability of social security and social welfare systems and pension schemes is perhaps the most paradigmatic example of this challenge, given the expected trend of an ageing european population in the coming years. education is also seen as a key pillar of development, and we need to ensure that education systems equip young people with the necessary skills, especially in the new areas of employment, such as the digital, green and blue economies. it is also an essential area for meeting the needs of enterprises, which are the prime engine of development. we believe that european policies should still encourage public and private investment at european level, but that investment must be directed towards projects that guarantee economic and/or social returns and must promote growth, and can never be a mechanism for the mere use of public funds. finally, i would like to highlight the entirely new approach proposed in this process, which consists in the unprecedented introduction of social indicators, in particular the activity rate, youth employment and long-term employment, in the analysis of the overall development of the member states. if this report is adopted, parliament will be sending a strong message to the commission and the council that, alongside other existing indicators such as those in the economic and financial field, we must have mechanisms to gauge the extent to which our policies are having an impact on the daily lives of our fellow citizens. this will be a way of ensuring that internal imbalances in the member states are further assessed so that we can redesign their economic and social reforms where necessary. this is a major step which allows us to strengthen the social pillar. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups who have worked very hard with me in our joint effort to reach a common position.
rapporteur.– madam president, we are at an important moment for the european semester because parliament can deliver today three important reports which deal with a situation that is quite unique in the european union. we are dealing with overlapping crises and, if you want to cope with these overlapping crises, it is certain that we need to strengthen the internal cohesion of the european union. this will depend a lot on delivering a much stronger and more balanced recovery. i have the pleasure to present today the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i am very grateful to my colleagues, because i believe that it was possible to reach a very useful compromise with real added value for the situation in the european union. the starting point of our report is to say that the european semester should be used to pursue the rebalancing of our budgets and relevant reforms, but also to implement the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, because we believe that, in the end, the future of europe will depend on this kind of competitiveness geared to the future, based on energy transition, digital solutions and bringing about more and better jobs. but if this is the case, the policy mix should be fully supported for this ambition. this means that in the policy mix to be implemented in the coming year, pushing for investment should be a top priority. this means making the best of the available tools, starting with the european investment plan, but also completing the banking union to make access to credit much easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. we do, of course, also need reforms, but we believe that we need a second generation of reforms pushing for education, innovation and good public administration and ensuring sustainable welfare systems. and, of course, we need to pursue the fiscal rebalancing of our budgets, but in such a way that we do not undermine this pro-growth move and the strategic investment we need to address. we should also take into account the fact that europe is confronted with new challenges, security issues and, in particular, the refugee crisis. i believe that the most important value in our report is the way to manage the euro area, because we recognise that the euro area is an economic entity deserving an appropriate policy mix. that is why we recommend that the investment gap which is there in the euro area should be addressed by sharing the contributions from different countries, particularly those with more fiscal space. the same should happen when it comes to reducing macroeconomic imbalances because, on the one hand, we need more-competitive countries to expand internal demand and, on the other, we need less-competitive countries to increase their competitiveness – not by reducing wages and social conditions but rather by investing in the future. these are important conclusions. we believe that it is crucial to organise upward convergence in the eurozone, assuming that economic and social objectives should be treated in the same way. this can only be delivered if we complete economic and monetary union with a fiscal capacity and the banking union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, for his report. i would like to begin by thanking the whole team of colleagues who were rapporteurs and in particular maria joão rodrigues for this excellent report. the message from the report is very clear: it says that it is time to change europe's economic agenda. today in the united states, the 2008 crisis belongs in the history books. in the european union, however, we are still "skating" (pardon the plebeianism) on an excessively weak recovery and unemployment. the expectations for german industry today are unfortunately at the level of 2008-2009. banking and insurance have again begun to show signs of strain, because there is no good business without good profitable companies, and there are no profitable companies without domestic demand and without investment, however low the interest rate. in economics, you can't just look at supply, there has to be demand, and the economic policy we've been pursuing has extinguished that demand through excessive austerity. today, any fluctuation in the united states or china's economy is a source of concern for the union. the budgetary policy must be adjusted and there must be symmetry in the adjustment between deficit and surplus countries. we must protect strategic investment and there seems to be a consensus on this. and we must complete the banking union, or the european union will lose control of its own destiny. portugal is a good example of how it is possible to comply with european rules and adopt a policy more conducive to economic growth and employment. but the union and the commission in particular, as well as the council, must be available to support alternatives such as these and also to change the dominant position which has hitherto existed in the general policy of monetary union itself. with so many problems threatening the union, let us have the intelligence to solve the economic component, because that is in our hands. i hope so.
madam president, the growth prospects for 2016 represent the starting point of a process to which we are firmly opposed. the european semester and economic governance are at the heart of a strategy of neoliberal domination of national budgetary policies. the report's guidelines, which governments should follow, insist on the same recipes that have sown poverty and unemployment across europe, effectively blocking any alternative strategy to deal with the crisis through policies to stimulate growth based on public investment and increased aggregate demand. there are no cosmetic manoeuvres, whether from the social point of view or through the greater involvement of this parliament, which can erase the profoundly anti-democratic character of economic and monetary union, which imposes, against the interest of the populations and the workers, its neoliberal policies of concentration of wealth. we remain convinced that only the end of economic and monetary union and the euro can open the way to alternative development policies.
madam president, we are faced with a set of documents which continue to deepen the european semester and economic governance policies, in a posture of make-up and whitewashing of its objectives and its consequences. the lie is that these instruments are the way to development, economic growth and convergence, when, on the contrary, they are instruments which undermine the sovereignty of states, which promote development asymmetries, the concentration of capital, social inequalities, the attack on workers' rights and the precariousness of work. we reject the european semester and economic governance policies, and we oppose any attempt to whitewash or legitimize policies of impoverishment and austerity. we affirm the need to break with these policies and instead strengthen the sovereignty of states and support development and sustainable economic growth by means of public control of strategic sectors, in work with rights and decent wages. (the speaker refuses to answer a 'blue card' question from mr nuno melo)
madam president, mr drombovskis, i am speaking directly to you. the european institutions were responsible for the failure of austerity and went into a state of denial. there is persistence in the economic and social disaster, but they have masked it and called it compliance or non-compliance with the rules. but when we look at the commission's behaviour, we find everything but rules and criteria. different countries deserve different treatment, depending on their size, on whether or not they respond to structural reforms, but above all on what the ideological agenda of the european commission is, which has to do with the flexibility of the labour market, privatisation and the dismantling of the welfare state. we look at the european commission's decisions, for example, in relation to portugal, spain, italy, france and austria: no criteria; equality, none; total arbitrariness. and so i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you really want to continue on this path, because those who did the most - the so-called good students - were the ones who had the worst results.
madam president, we agree on the drawbacks of austerity policies. but first, some of those who appeal to the solidarity of those who follow the rules must not make austerity inevitable, as happened in portugal, where the socialists ruled badly until 2009. a country that spends more than it can afford is condemning itself intolerably and indebting future generations. that's why the absurd spending choices up to 2009 meant necessary condition deficit, debt, unemployment, recession, inability to finance in the markets and the troika. now, in 2016, the same socialists who govern, having lost the elections, insist again on fantastic budgets, where they predict growth above - see there - the average of the european union itself. we've seen that movie. i'm afraid i know how this is gonna end. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)).)
the reporter asks for a blue card. mr nuno melo, we have heard in this debate a speech by mrs maria joão rodrigues, who made a pro-european speech in which she defended the strengthening of the euro zone, and on the other hand we have heard a speech by our communist colleagues, who made a completely eurosceptic speech. we have noticed that there is a lag between speeches here and i would like to know whether mr nuno melo shares my misunderstanding of this coalition, which in portugal has one speech and here in europe has a completely different one.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i could not agree more and, not coincidentally, the communist member who wanted to question with the blue card did not answer and ran away. he is not even in the room anymore. but that's just the way it is. in fact, in portugal we have a party in power which has lost the elections, which has learned nothing from the mistakes of the past and which persists in the budgetary illusion of those who want to turn faith into a science. the confidence in growth forecasts, which accountants do not conceive, is unfortunately not usually translated into reality, and for that reason i very much agree with the honourable member, thank you very much for your question. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)).)
the rapporteur asks for a blue card. mr nuno melo, it is indeed fantastic that you and other members are insisting on making this parliament an amphitheatre for discussing portuguese politics. that is not really the case. however, what is at stake here is whether or not it is possible to combine budgetary responsibility with a return to growth, job creation and reduction of social inequalities. the government of the party of which you are a member has not been able to do that in recent years, and the question is whether the government now in office will be able to do it, and i think it will.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madam president, you referred to the advantage of solidarity between countries with better fiscal conditions compared to countries in difficulty, particularly in the euro area. what i would like to say to you is that you are also sending the wrong signal, because you have not said a word about the need for structural reforms by those who, by mismanaging, by their own mistake, to some extent condemn their own future development. in other words, we cannot call on others for help when we have our own responsibilities and do nothing to overcome them. and what i think is that in your speech you should have a balanced discourse between solidarity with others and internal responsibility and, unfortunately, the portuguese socialist party has a lot to say about this responsibility.
rapporteur.– madam president, it is now my pleasure to intervene in the conclusion of this debate. i also found the debate extremely useful. i would also like to thank the commission and the presidency for the statements they made. with these three good reports, we can see a new compromise emerging for a stronger recovery – to implement the europe 2020 strategy with the right combination of investments and reforms, but also to tackle imbalances and social inequalities. we need to do so. you can be sure that parliament stands ready to go on working, together with the commission and the presidency, to deliver on the next phases of the european semester. that is why i would like to use my last minutes to propose that, by building precisely on our very positive experience over the last months, we can open negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement in order to improve the european semester. in practice, we could already get some of these improvements, because we could have a good discussion with the commission before the adoption of the annual growth survey and immediately afterwards. a second important improvement was the euro area discussion in plenary, which was also an opportunity to interact with the president of the eurogroup. finally, as we can see now, we in parliament can deliver three reports well in advance, to be taken into account for the preparation of the upcoming spring european council, thus improving the interface we have between parliament and the council. we can build on this progress and consider the possibility of an interinstitutional agreement to have a european semester with more democratic legitimacy, but also with more relevance and impact on the ground regarding our citizens.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues, the commission and the council presidency for the richness of the debate we had this afternoon. there is a common line here, that we should focus on investment at the level of the european union. the question is what kind of investment we want to make and under what conditions we will make it. this is a responsibility of all of us as the european union, but it is also a responsibility which in many cases is the exclusive responsibility of the member states, and the member states cannot shirk this responsibility. we need stability in our public policies and we need to win the trust of our investors. and since we are talking about confidence - and we have just been talking about the portuguese situation, where colleagues from the socialist party gave the example of the portuguese question, where a vote of confidence was requested from the portuguese government, which was given by the european institutions - let me just say that we cannot have any uncertainties. mrs maria joão rodrigues said that she thought we had the conditions to grow. we cannot think, we cannot continue to use demagogy and we cannot afford to experiment further in europe. we must have certainty, we must have responsible policies and we must have policies that are properly oriented. in the last two years, both in my country and in the european union, we have seen an economic and social recovery which has been timid, but which has shown us a path we must follow. if it is true - and it has been recognized - that there are countless factors that can be reviewed and that must be reviewed - and we have that responsibility - we cannot throw it all away and we cannot make change just for the sake of change. it is in this sense that i am prepared to continue to cooperate with the commission so that we can, in conjunction with the national parliaments and the social partners, see how we can, globally and locally, actually build the citizens' europe.
the ep's annual growth survey and european semester 2016 report marks a turning point in the prevailing thinking in the european forum for representing european citizens. the report rejects the austerity model and advocates a coordination of economic and social policies based on the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. it advocates the strengthening of investment and domestic demand. it advocates 'second-generation' structural reforms to boost growth potential, focusing on education and innovation, the sustainability of the social model, the modernisation of public administration and a fair and equitable tax system. it also supports a new model for the management of the euro area which would make it closer to an optimal monetary area by providing it with its own instruments within the framework of economic and monetary union. it is a historic report whose recommendations must be implemented.
madam president, we are naturally in favour of european union solidarity with countries in difficulty, and in particular those which are under attack, as was the case in tunisia. however, we express our reservations about the way in which solidarity is to be exercised in this particular case, not only because it may again harm a sector with some weaknesses, but because other instruments exist in the context of external policies, neighbourhood policy and humanitarian policy, among others, or mechanisms for strengthening the economy and political stabilization of the country in question. at the same time, we all know the importance of the olive oil sector to the economies of mediterranean countries, such as portugal. for this reason too, the principle of solidarity must not only apply outside the european union but also within the european union, which means that there must be greater protection of sectors which are key to the economy of the member states and fairer and more appropriate alternatives to support the economy of third countries. my vote will therefore reflect my position on this matter.
madam president, madam commissioner, let us start with the most important thing: the european union already had a political obligation to be faithful to the commitment to strengthen trade relations with tunisia; the european union has also now a moral obligation to support tunisia even more after the terrorist attacks which have seriously damaged the tunisian economy. it therefore makes perfect sense to support the olive oil sector in tunisia, although we must also take into account that the olive oil sector is an important sector for several countries in southern europe. two things must therefore be clear: firstly, that these are truly exceptional and temporary measures to be in force for no more than two years; secondly, as proposed by our rapporteur, they are subject to a safeguard mechanism which allows them to be suspended in the event of serious disruption of the european olive oil market. in this way we will show solidarity with tunisia, as we must, and give the european olive oil industry the necessary reassurance.
madam president, tunisia is going through a period of great turmoil and is a country that deserves european solidarity. the additional quota granted for olive oil exports to the european union is part of this solidarity approach. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. as in any bilateral trade relationship with the european union, due precautions should be taken to ensure stability in the sectoral internal market as well as the quality requirements of imports. i therefore believe that the appropriate bodies should have mechanisms in place to alert them to potential imbalances in the functioning of the olive oil market in the european union, which means regular monitoring of the quantities imported. i also believe that this measure should be implemented without setting any precedent in the negotiating process between the european union and tunisia on the establishment of a free trade area.
the existence of an ombudsman and, above all, its work, is a guarantee of defending and strengthening citizenship in europe. the ombudsman's interventions are based on complaints from citizens and are therefore reactive in nature, but i believe that a genuine ombudsman of the european union should take a proactive stance, that is to say, he should take initiatives, even without complaints from citizens, to correct certain acts of the bodies of the european union or even of some member states. for example, the recent passing of laws in denmark allowing the confiscation of refugees' property by the state should merit strong intervention by the ombudsman, because they are a flagrant attack on citizenship. on the other hand, since poverty is one of the worst enemies of citizenship, its eradication should also be a priority for a true ombudsman. fighting poverty is strengthening citizenship.
‒ the hague convention allows for the recognition of crossborder service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. however, in the case of the european union, it is only applicable to documents originating in or destined for third countries, as community rules already exist for the same purpose between member states. since it has exclusive competence in this area and cannot, as a signatory, accede to the convention, the union must authorise individual member states to accede. given the clear european interest in the existence of a common regime, the european parliament is giving its consent to accession.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby documents may be delivered in another signatory state. of the 28 member states, 26 already apply this convention. austria and malta, the two member states which have not yet applied it, have expressed their wish to join. malta has already deposited its instrument of accession but has made a declaration that its accession will not be effective until this decision is adopted. austria is awaiting this decision in order to complete the accession formalities. since the hague convention has proved useful in the field of crossborder service of documents, and it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a single system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries, i support the decision allowing austria and malta to accede to that convention.
‒ this convention covers the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. it also defines the means to be used when a judicial act is to be transmitted from one contracting state to another for service there. it allows for the improvement of the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents, facilitates judicial cooperation in transnational judicial proceedings and creates an efficient and reliable system for the citation and service of judicial and extrajudicial documents. the eu cannot be a party to the convention because it does not establish anything about regional economic organisations, only individual states. member states may not conclude the convention without being authorised to do so by the eu in accordance with the tfeu. we reject this reality, which is just another expression of the loss of sovereignty of the states as a result of the deepening of the process of capitalist integration which is the eu. this is the formalization of the procedure for accession to the hague convention for the only two member states which were not members of the convention. by his own free and sovereign decision. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the authorization of austria and malta to accede to the hague convention of 15 november 1965. of the 28 member states, 26 apply the convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters, a key instrument for judicial cooperation.
‒ this convention covers the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. it also defines the means to be used when a judicial act is to be transmitted from one contracting state to another for service there. it allows for the improvement of the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents, facilitates judicial cooperation in transnational judicial proceedings and creates an efficient and reliable system for the citation and service of judicial and extrajudicial documents. the eu cannot be a party to the convention because it does not establish anything about regional economic organisations, only individual states. member states may not conclude the convention without being authorised to do so by the eu, in accordance with the tfeu. we reject this reality, which is just another expression of the loss of sovereignty of the states as a result of the deepening of the process of capitalist integration which is the eu. this is the formalization of the procedure for accession to the hague convention for the only two member states which were not members of the convention. despite reservations about the eu's prior authorisation procedure, we voted in favour.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters aims to improve the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents to or from third countries. it currently applies to 26 member states, with the remaining two - austria and malta - having expressed an interest in acceding to the convention. while it is true that, in accordance with article 3 (2) tfeu, the union has exclusive external competence in this area, those member states need authorisation to accede to the convention. furthermore, since the union cannot become a contracting party to the convention, it is necessary for the union to exercise its competences through the member states and it is therefore in the union's interest to authorise their accession. in these terms, and considering that it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a single system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries, i voted in favour of this draft decision authorising the accession of austria and malta to that convention.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby documents may be delivered in another signatory state. this convention applies only to the cross-border service of documents to or from third countries. of the 28 member states, 26 already apply this convention. austria and malta, the two member states which have not yet applied it, have expressed their wish to join.
‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 regulates the procedure for the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. of the 28 member states of the european union, only two had not yet applied the convention: austria and malta. since this convention does not allow for the accession of international organisations, the eu should authorise the member states concerned to act on its behalf in order to accede to it. since this convention has proved useful in the field of crossborder service of judicial and extrajudicial documents, it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to apply this convention, and i therefore voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
‒ this convention covers the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. a judicial act is one that is made by a judge or by the parties involved in a judicial proceeding. an extrajudicial act is one that originates outside the judicial area, for example notarial acts. this convention defines the means to be used when a judicial act is to be transmitted from one contracting state to another for service there. the countries shall define the competence of an authority to transmit and to serve the summons and service and that authority shall take the necessary measures to effect such a summons/service. before, this was done through consular or diplomatic channels. it defines alternative means of transmission of documents, for example by post. it is a formal aspect. these two countries are the only two member states not party to this convention.
‒ the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. under the new agreement, as of 2017, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. i support this report because i consider that this agreement represents important progress in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
‒ the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the eu and san marino shall therefore exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the new agreement will enable the tax administrations of the member states and san marino to identify correctly and unambiguously the taxpayers concerned; to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations; to assess the likelihood of tax evasion occurring and to dispense with unnecessary additional enquiries. i voted in favour.
‒ the signed agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account and interest information, which aims, among other things, to improve international tax cooperation, represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, san marino and the eu will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents as of 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide the sources of his non-taxed financial income. the agreement aims to ensure that san marino applies measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and the oecd. we have nothing to object to and we recognise the positive (albeit limited) aspects which may result.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the agreement is an essential instrument for tax cooperation in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, increasing tax efficiency in tax collection.
‒ this agreement, signed this year, on the automatic exchange of financial account and interest information, aims to ensure that san marino applies measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and the oecd, and aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance, representing an important step in the ongoing efforts to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. under it, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents as of 2017.
‒ this agreement concerns the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. it represents important progress in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of san marino concluded an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information at the end of 2015 with the aim of improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this agreement is another milestone in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. following this new agreement, the eu and san marino will now automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of residents of the other party, and automatic exchange of information on request is also ensured, in line with the latest developments in oecd and eu work in this area. under the new agreement, the tax administrations of the member states and san marino will not only be able to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, but also to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to ensure that financial matters between san marino and the eu run smoothly.
‒ the agreement signed this year on the automatic exchange of financial account and interest information, which aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance, is an important step in the ongoing efforts to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents as of 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide the sources of his non-taxed financial income. the agreement aims to ensure that san marino applies measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and the oecd.
‒ in the context of its accession process, croatia, as a member state of the union, became party to a set of conventions and protocols which form part of the community legal framework. among them is this convention, which is an integral part of the european instruments for the protection of the financial interests of the community, but which is currently being revised. however, it did not enter into force by the act of accession, pending a decision by the council after consulting parliament. parliament therefore gives its consent to its being applied also in croatia, as proposed by the european commission.
‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. the council must now adopt a decision determining the date on which these conventions enter into force in croatia. a recommendation i agree with and voted for.
in writing. the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty. the act of accession shall determine the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols. this report deals with croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, a simple process but one which is integrated into this process of european capitalist integration. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. in contrast to the reality of the vast majority of member states, croatia has made eu membership a matter for the people. an expression that contradicts the sovereign act that validated it, which we respect and accept. the report is essentially a consequence of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, which is why we abstained.
‒ a convention (and protocols adopted over the years) has been in force since 1995 to protect the financial interests of the european union in the context of criminal law. the commission is proposing to introduce legal definitions and sanctions for fraud against the eu's financial interests. as a member state of the european union, it is essential that croatia accede to the convention, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty. the act of accession determines the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols. this report deals with croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, a simple process but one which is integrated into this process of european capitalist integration. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. in contrast to the reality of the vast majority of member states, croatia has made eu membership a matter for the people. an expression that contradicts the sovereign act that validated it, which we respect and accept. the report is essentially a consequence of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, which is why we abstained.
‒ the treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in 2011 introduced a simplified system for its accession to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession provides that croatia accedes to those conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. as regards this specific convention, the commission recommends that the council determine the date on which this convention (and its protocols) enters into force for croatia. in this sense, and because it is a very technical procedure, i voted in favour of the present proposal from the european commission.
‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession provides that croatia accedes to those conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. annex i to the act of accession lists the conventions and protocols concerned, and this report refers in particular to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests of 26 july 1995, its protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997, all adopted under title vi of the eu treaty. although accession to the european union is a straitjacket for the states, it is a free and sovereign decision of each people.
‒ the free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms which form the basis of the european internal market. the european mobility portal eures is an important tool for such mobility, as it allows a cross-border match between job supply and demand, but also as a reliable source and aggregator of information. however, it should be remembered that labour market policy, including all support measures, remains a matter for national competence. to that extent, the proper functioning of measures such as this depends on national authorities, which justifies, for example, that the public services of each member state should be designated automatically by the member states as members of the network responsible for the application of this regulation. on the other hand, only 3.1% of the european workforce works in another member state and on average only 700 000 people move each year. greater use of this mobility, which allows a greater match between demand and supply, contributes to more employment. faced with unemployment which remains worrying in some countries, notably portugal, improving instruments such as eures is of even greater importance. that is why i support this report.
in writing. the eures network was set up in 1993 with the aim of helping europeans find employment in another member state. however, high unemployment rates in some eu member states coexist with opportunities in other countries, but intra-eu labour mobility remains relatively low. only 3.1% of european workers are economically active in another member state (7.5 million out of 241 million workers). language skills and difficulties in finding a job are cited as the main reasons for this. the proposal for a regulation aims to improve the eures network by broadening the supply of jobs and improving the accessibility of curricula, improving the link between available vacancies and existing curricula, increasing the exchange of information between member states on their shortcomings and including traineeships and other apprenticeship programmes. the network currently has over one million vacancies and 235,000 available cvs.
the report proposes amendments to the european commission's proposal for a regulation on eures a european network of employment services. the original proposal raised some issues which merited our opposition, although in a general, not negative sense. the amendments to it are, on the whole, positive. a warning to the issue of compulsory mobility. the report introduces amendments which give greater prominence to the member states and their (employment and training) structures, ensure the involvement of trade unions, treat mobility as an essentially cross-border issue and guarantee the free provision of all eures services. in this respect, the regulation has been improved. it is understood that a voluntary mobility facilitation network such as that presented in this report is an interesting development, and so, not supporting the original proposal, we voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the development of labour market integration. the european union must use all the instruments necessary to reverse the unemployment situation. in view of the high unemployment rate in some regions of europe, it is necessary to strengthen the mobility of workers within the eu. this regulation will enable the eures network to be an effective tool in the near future for both jobseekers and employers interested in the mobility of workers within the eu. it will be an opportunity to establish a more transparent process so that people looking for a job can get accurate information about working conditions and services at the workplace.
the report proposes amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the eures network (european employment services) and not its development. the commission's original text contains some references which we regard as negative, distorting the relationship between the labour market and school curricula. the extension of the network to include the promotion of traineeships and training is one of the positive elements. we also note a slowdown in the emphasis on mobility, in particular compulsory mobility. the report proposes amendments that reinforce the role of the member states and their structures (employment and training), elements that enhance the sovereignty and decision-making capacity of the states. it values the involvement of the social partners, gives guidance on the perspective of mobility as an essentially cross-border issue and advocates the free provision of all eures services. some considerations and proposals which we believe will improve the regulation. it is understood that mobility should not be coercive, but should result from a voluntary decision, in which case a facilitating network such as that presented in this report can be useful for the workers involved. that is why we voted in favour.
‒ the free choice of workplace within the eu is an integral part of free movement as it constitutes one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and a crucial element of eu citizenship. the mobility of workers within the eu is relatively low compared to the size of the labour market and the active population in the eu the mobility rate in the eu-27 is only 0.29%. it is therefore necessary to increase the mobility of workers within the eu, to improve employment opportunities and to help employers find better-qualified workers more quickly for the jobs they have available, thus developing the european labour market. the objective of this regulation is to make the eures network (european job mobility portal) an effective tool for both jobseekers and employers interested in the mobility of workers within the eu by providing access, at european level and in a transparent manner, to the widest possible set of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which aims to make the eures network a more effective tool for both jobseekers and employers interested in the mobility of workers within the eu by providing access, at european level and in a transparent manner, to a wide range of job vacancies and profiles of jobseekers. however, and although i consider it important to promote labour mobility within the eu, i would point out that this proposal for a regulation provides that priority should be given to nationals of eu member states when filling jobs, without, however, forgetting that labour market policies remain the sphere of competence of the member states. i also believe that, based on the lessons learned from the high unemployment rate in some regions of europe, it is important to enhance the mobility of workers by improving employment opportunities and facilitating the recruitment process for employers. in view of the positive contribution which these measures will certainly make to the development of the european labour market and, consequently, to the increase in employment rates, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the report proposes amendments to the eures regulation, not its development. the commission's original text mentions some issues that merit opposition (the relationship between the labour market and school curricula, for example), but on the whole it introduces changes that are considered positive, such as the extension of the network to the promotion of traineeships and training or, of course, not arguing for compulsory mobility. it proposes amendments to give more prominence to the member states and their structures (employment and training), to ensure the involvement of the social partners, to treat mobility as an essentially cross-border issue and to guarantee that all eures services are free of charge. in this respect, the regulation is more positive. it is understood that a voluntary mobility facilitation network such as that presented in this report is an interesting development
‒ the autonomous emergency trade measures for tunisia are part of a strategy to support the young tunisian democracy, the only successful case of the arab spring. the european union is also concerned about the situation in tunisia, which is suffering from terrorist attacks aimed at destabilising the country, is facing serious problems at its borders, particularly in libya, and is facing a fragile economic and social situation. it is therefore of great importance that europe sends a clear signal of support to the democratic regime in tunisia. the eu countries should not view the opening up to tunisia as a circumstantial threat to specific european economic sectors, but rather as an aid to the maintenance of a still rather fragile democracy. support in a wide range of areas must be seen as essential to preventing a serious problem in that country with unforeseeable consequences on the european territory itself. at a time when the experts on the lucidity of the next day are concentrating on blaming europe for not having acted pre-emptively and are dedicated to holding it fully responsible for the dramatic problems of human rights violations in the north african and middle eastern region, it would be important that they do not oppose a proposal aimed at the democratic stabilisation of a country facing serious problems.
in writing. ‒ i am in solidarity with tunisia as it seeks to consolidate its democracy and recover an economy that was further damaged by the 2015 terrorist attacks in tunis and sousse. i agree that the eu should provide support that will help tunisia's economic development. but this solidarity must be an eu-wide effort and not be mainly a penalty for the countries of southern europe. the proposal aims to facilitate the duty-free entry of 70,000 tonnes of olive oil onto the european market, in addition to the 56,700 tonnes provided for in the association agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. moreover, the trend in olive oil over the last ten years has been a continuous fall in prices and a decline in crop profitability as a result of a steady increase in production costs. i therefore abstained in the final vote, as the amendments i supported were not adopted.
‒ olive oil is the main agricultural product exported from tunisia to the eu. the olive oil sector is an important part of the economy of the country, as well as of certain regions of certain member states, particularly the south. the proposed regulation of the community executive provides for the granting of an annual tariff quota, duty free, of 35000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu in 2016 and 2017 (i.e. 70000 tonnes in total). this quota would be opened after the current 56 700 tonnes, also without tariff, under the eu-tunisia association agreement have been used up. i doubt whether these benefits will compensate for the losses and possible disruptions in the european olive oil sector, particularly in portugal. before this decision was taken, there should have been a study assessing the economic, social and territorial impact of this proposal. for this reason, i abstained on the motion.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, the quota is available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the philosophy of the measure is the same as that which has explained in the past identical measures, for example, in relation to the import of textiles from pakistan. for portugal, as for other mediterranean member states, olive oil production is of significant economic and social importance and will be adversely affected by this measure. other measures of genuine and more effective solidarity with the tunisian people could have been taken. that is not the purpose of this measure. this measure benefits european importers (and some limited interests in tunisia) but harms the same importers. the truth is that such measures never harm the most powerful countries in the eu (as was the case with textiles in pakistan, as is now the case with olive oil in tunisia). it is always the same people who bear the costs of this false solidarity.
in the report on the introduction of autonomous emergency trade measures for tunisia, my vote was abstention. after the attacks in tunisia, it is important that the european union shows solidarity with that country. however, i have many reservations when i see the european union using trade policy as a bargaining chip in situations of this nature. in that case, the olive oil sector in the southern european countries will be severely damaged. the olive oil sector is extremely important for portugal, which has been promoting domestic production with investment and internationalisation support, having tripled production between 2007 and 2014. i am concerned about the damage that the sector may suffer, and i have therefore abstained.
in the light of the regrettable attacks of 26 june 2015, a temporary unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, duty-free, is proposed as an autonomous trade measure for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the european union. a quota to be made available for a period of two years starting on 1 january 2016. olive oil production is of significant economic and social importance not only for portugal but also for other mediterranean member states. we understand the need to provide aid to tunisia, particularly in the wake of the criminal attacks. we cannot accept, however, that the costs of this solidarity should be borne systematically by the same people, burdening countries like portugal whose economies are depressed by the austerity policies imposed by the troika, in this case by solidarity which is in direct conflict with their national production interests. the european union should activate other solidarity mechanisms to provide appropriate support to tunisia. we voted against the express.
in writing. this report concerns the introduction of autonomous emergency trade measures for the republic of tunisia following the terrorist attack in sousse on 26 june 2015. in particular, this concerns the granting of an annual duty-free tariff quota of 35000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu in 2016 and 2017, giving a value of 70000 tonnes in total, after the current 56700 tonnes provided for in the eu-tunisia association agreement have been used up, also duty-free. i have had the opportunity to say in the plenary that i am fully in favour of political and economic aid to this country, although i disagree with the way in which it is intended to be used, since it would be possible to use other instruments, for example in the context of the neighbourhood policy or humanitarian aid, without calling into question the olive oil sector, which is so important for the agricultural economy of some member states. the principle of solidarity must not only apply outside the eu but also within the eu, and for that reason i have decided to abstain.
‒ this report proposes, following the attacks of 26 june 2015, the granting of a unilateral and temporary tariff quota for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the european union, with exemption from duties of 35 000 tonnes per year, in the form of an autonomous trade measure. the quota is available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. for portugal, as for other mediterranean member states, olive oil production is of significant economic and social importance. we do not understand that the same people as always are systematically bearing the costs of this solidarity, which is also the result of imperial policies of interference by the most powerful countries. we therefore call for other forms of solidarity to be found which do not penalise only countries and economies in difficulty.
in the light of the recent events in tunisia, the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of a proposal for a regulation to the council on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation. in order to prevent any disruption in the european olive oil sector, the commission is obliged to carry out an interim assessment of the impact on the union olive oil market as from the entry into force of these provisions and, if it is found that the european market is affected, the ec is also obliged to propose corrective measures to restore the situation.
‒ i support the zdechovský report, which will allow the globalisation adjustment fund to be used to reintegrate into the labour market 410 workers from two belgian companies who have been made redundant and 100 targeted young people who are not working, studying or in training. the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing has also had an impact on the glass sector, which has particularly affected the walloon region. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted an application following redundancies in the manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products; the estimated 412 redundant workers and 100 young people in the province of hainaut who are not in employment, education or training (neets) and under 25 years of age are expected to take part in the proposed measures. i therefore agree that a financial contribution of eur 1 095 544 should be mobilised to meet the request made by belgium.
‒ another proposal to mobilise this fund, which means a few hundred more redundancies in the eu. the proposal concerns 412 workers made redundant by two glass-making firms in hainaut and namur. the aim is to mobilise eur 1 095 544 from the globalisation adjustment fund to provide individual assistance in job search, individual case management and general information services, training and retraining, grants and incentives. the conversation is always the same. the application is justified by the significant decrease in glass production in europe, which for the first time since the 1960s fell below 1 million tonnes in 2009, a trend which continued in 2011 and 2012, with many of the remaining producers shifting production to asia, resulting in a decrease in employment in this sector of 12% since 2010 and 27% since 2000. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. there are no palliatives, nor can they legitimise these policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2015/007 be/ hainut-namur glass. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the application submitted meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf and the belgian authorities have provided all the necessary guarantees, so i have voted in favour.
‒ the proposal results from the dismissal of 412 workers from two companies operating in the glass sector in hainaut and namur. this is the mobilisation of eur 1 095 544 from the globalisation adjustment fund, which will be used for individual assistance in job search, management of individual cases and general information services, training and retraining, grants and incentives. this application is justified by the significant decrease in glass production in europe, which for the first time since the 1960s fell below one million tonnes in 2009, a trend which continued in 2011 and 2012. a depression resulting from the relocation of companies to asia, which has also resulted in a fall in employment in this sector on european soil of 12% since 2010 and 27% since 2000. we agree that this aid should be mobilised quickly to support the workers who have been made redundant, the main victims of political decisions reflecting the deepening of the capitalist system and the pursuit of neoliberal policies, which we condemn.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for belgium, totalling eur 1 095 544, to deal with 412 redundancies in hainaut-namur glass, an economic sector manufacturing other non-metallic mineral products in the hainaut and namur regions, which has closed down its production units. the report shows that the criteria for mobilising the eusf have been met and, aware of the difficulties the glass sector has faced in recent years and the profound impact this has had on local communities and their economies, i voted in favour.
‒ the proposal concerns 412 workers made redundant by two companies operating in the glass sector in hainaut and namur. this is the mobilisation of eur 1 095 544 from the globalisation adjustment fund, which will be used for individual assistance in job search, management of individual cases and general information services, training and retraining, grants and incentives. this claim is justified by the significant decrease in glass production in europe, which for the first time since the 1960s fell below 1 million tonnes in 2009, a trend which continued in 2011 and 2012, with many of the remaining producers shifting production to asia, resulting in a decrease in employment in this sector of 12% since 2010 and 27% since 2000. we agree that this aid should be mobilised quickly to support those who are the main victims of the consequences of political decisions, and we reiterate our criticism of the lack of action to halt the course of the neoliberal policies which have once again led to this outcome.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this report with the active support of the main european political families is of great political significance. the european parliament explicitly indicates its willingness to link budgetary restraint with the ambition to promote economic growth and job creation. this programme option has marked the action of the present european commission and has already given rise to interesting initiatives to encourage investment, such as the juncker plan. it would be good if the various european governments understood the need for a clear choice on this path, which is, moreover, very well expressed in this text which has won the support of a large majority of meps.
‒ the european semester is one of the instruments for economic coordination between member states. its main objectives are to pursue structural reforms that promote employment and growth, sustainable fiscal policies and the prevention of macroeconomic imbalances. sustainable growth can only be achieved through a combination of these three elements. the national budgets need to be balanced and, especially in cases like the portuguese one, it is urgent to continue the work of rebuilding the future by a consistent reduction in the deficit. on the other hand, european funding programmes such as horizon 2010 or the so-called juncker plan should be used to stimulate 'smart' investment, i.e. with lasting effects on job creation and wealth generation. finally, it is clear that each country cannot be considered only in its individual capacity but also in the broader context of the whole of emu. we therefore need coordinated action by the union. i welcome the democratic scrutiny of economic coordination policies that this report provides, but i hope that this scrutiny exercise can be improved, in line with the proposal in the report of the five presidents in june 2015.
‒ the report by maria joão rodrigues recognises that the efforts made and the structural reforms have had positive results in employment and in reducing public debt. it also reaffirms what we have been passing in this parliament over the past few years: 1- fiscal policy must strengthen competitiveness and growth and at the same time be responsible and respect the limits of public debt in order to preserve our social rights. the fact is that more deficit and more debt actually lead to a decline in the welfare state. and they bring more poverty and unemployment; 2- it is clear that the ecb 's role in low interest rates is fundamental in the stabilisation and management of public debt; 3- the strengthening of domestic demand, especially in the countries with surpluses, is positive. this is the goal to which everyone should aspire; 4- structural reforms are essential; the efsi and the structural investment funds should be put to good use. i congratulate the rapporteur and hope that all member states will act in accordance with the recommendations in this report.
‒ the annual growth survey 2016 (ags2016) represents the starting point of a process to which we strongly oppose. the european semester and economic governance are at the heart of a strategy of neoliberal domination of the budgetary policies, and many others by drag, of the national states. the report's guidelines, which governments must follow or face sanctions, insist on the same recipe that has sown poverty and unemployment across europe, effectively blocking any alternative strategy to deal with the crisis, by making it impossible to implement growth-enhancing policies based on public investment and an increase in aggregate demand, for example. there are no cosmetic manoeuvres, whether from a social point of view or aimed at a supposed democratic legitimacy, which can erase the profoundly anti-democratic character of economic and monetary union, which imposes its neo-liberal policies of wealth concentration against the interest of the people and the workers. the dissolution of emu is a necessary step towards the implementation of policies for the development of the peripheral countries, for breaking the relations of dependence and submission, for improving the living conditions and the welfare of workers and peoples.
‒ this report is intended to respond to the annual growth survey for 2016 as regards economic policy coordination in the context of the european semester. while this report has made some improvements over previous ones, seeking a better combination of investment policies, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, emphasising the need for increased domestic demand and flexible monetary policies, the focus on the need for structural reforms and more competitive and flexible labour markets, always result in greater job insecurity and continuation of austerity policies, not leading to sustainable and quality growth. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary that some of those who appeal to the solidarity of those who follow the rules do not make austerity inevitable as happened in portugal, with the badly governed socialists until 2009. a country that spends more than it can afford is condemning itself intolerably and indebting future generations. so the absurd spending choices until 2009 meant in portugal a necessary condition deficit, debt, unemployment, recession, inability to finance on the markets and the troika. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies because i share the view that greater coordination at european level is needed to achieve a more solid and sustained economic recovery.
‒ this report reinforces and deepens a political view which we firmly reject. the european semester and economic governance are at the heart of the strategy of supranational neoliberal domination over the budgetary policies of the member states, by amputating their economic sovereignty. the report's guidelines insist on the same recipe that has sown poverty and unemployment across europe, effectively blocking any strategies for development and economic growth based on growth-enhancing policies and supported by public investment and the promotion of jobs with rights and decent wages. the fact that the european parliament has been able to vote on the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, which is the subject of this report, is a very good sign that the european parliament is not going to be able to vote on the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. only a break with these policies can pave the way for alternative development policies centred on the assertion of the sovereignty of the states and the defence of the interests and aspirations of the peoples and workers.
‒ at a particularly difficult time for europe, with multiple european crises, the european parliament is sending a message in defence of internal cohesion, by betting on an economic revival that will reduce unemployment and social inequalities. we need not only fiscal consolidation and reforms but also a significant boost to investment and domestic demand. a strategy for growth and jobs must be the first objective of this semester. i wish the message was stronger and clearer. it is, however, a step in that direction.
‒ in this resolution, and as i have already said with regard to the report on employment and social affairs, i would like to reaffirm the importance of the three priorities identified by the commission in its annual growth survey 2016: boosting investment, the need for structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies. the report, which was ideologically difficult, was able to build bridges between the epp and the s&d, and among other ideas, it stressed the need to implement structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, while avoiding the politicization of the european central bank, and also highlighted the need for wage increases, which obviously depend on productivity gains in the member states' economies. i would also stress that, despite the overall improvements in public finances in the eu, in particular the gradual decline in debt-to-gdp ratios, public debt ratios continue to rise in several member states, which requires close and careful monitoring of these situations. i also consider the point in the resolution that 'effective implementation of structural reforms and greater coordination at european level to achieve a stronger economic recovery and sustainable and broadly shared prosperity' to be important, and i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the growth outlook for 2016 represents the starting point of a process to which we are strongly opposed. the european semester and economic governance are at the heart of a strategy of neoliberal domination of national budgetary policies. the guidelines in the report, which governments should follow, insist on the same recipe that has sown poverty and unemployment across europe, effectively preventing any alternative strategies to deal with the crisis, with growth-stimulating policies based on public investment and an increase in aggregate demand. there are no cosmetic manoeuvres, whether from the social point of view or through the greater involvement of this house, which can erase the profoundly anti-democratic character of economic and monetary union, which imposes, against the interest of the people and the workers, its neoliberal policies of concentration of wealth. we remain convinced that only the end of emu and the euro can pave the way for alternative development policies, centred on the well-being of people and not on the accumulation of profits.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey for 2016, drawn up by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and drawn up by the rapporteur, mrs maria joão rodrigues, because it marks a turning point in the prevailing thinking in the european forum representing european citizens. the report rejects the austerity model and advocates a coordination of economic and social policies, taking as a reference the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. it advocates the strengthening of investment and domestic demand. it advocates 'second-generation' structural reforms to boost growth potential, focusing on education and innovation, the sustainability of the social model, the modernisation of public administration and a fair and equitable tax system. it also supports a new model for the management of the euro area, which would make it closer to an optimal monetary area by providing it with its own instruments within the framework of economic and monetary union. it is a historic report, and its recommendations must be implemented.
‒ in its first year of work, the european commission has put forward ambitious initiatives to support jobs and growth, strengthen economic convergence and strengthen social justice. the economic priorities of the annual growth survey remain valid, but political efforts should be strengthened for 2016. i support the excellent report by mrs sofia ribeiro, which stresses the need to link the economic and social dimensions and sets out concrete measures to promote sustainable social development, which is transversal to all the union's policies, and proposes that it be monitored. i stress the need to invest in people as early as possible in order to reduce inequalities and promote social inclusion, and i welcome the commission's proposal to strengthen the youth guarantee and the individual approach to long-term unemployment. i argue that socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, inclusion and social justice, protecting the most vulnerable groups. this desire cannot be dissociated from the promotion of sustainable growth leading to the creation of more jobs by stimulating entrepreneurship. in this context, it is desirable to make better use of european funds in promoting social, economic and territorial cohesion.
‒ i would like to stress in the report the call for greater efforts to ensure the balance between the social and the market economy, so that the convergence of european policies is accompanied by an effective increase in employment, prosperity and the improvement of the living conditions of citizens. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sofia ribeiro, on her excellent work. i would stress the call in the report for social indicators to be taken into account in the evaluation of the european semester. this is an important innovation.
‒ this report points to the consolidation of the policies embodied in the so-called economic governance, of which the european semester is an instrument, fulfilling the annual growth survey, its neoliberal recipe and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, specifically with regard to employment and social issues. the rapporteur, the portuguese member of the right, values the country-specific recommendations and the need to implement them, when we know they are unacceptable and anti-democratic. in portugal, they consisted of the attack on social and labour rights, measures of 'budgetary consolidation', privatisations, the deepening of inequalities, the theft of wages and the crushing of consumption. the european semester is another mechanism for attacking the sovereignty of peoples, the sovereignty of state bodies, deepening the concentration of power at eu level to better implement policies that are contrary to the will, needs and aspirations of the people - a process that we reject categorically. the report confirms the need to break with the neoliberal policies imposed by the eu as an essential step towards achieving economic growth, development, job creation, broad social and labour rights and decent wages. we voted against it.
‒ this report aims to respond to the commission's proposal on the annual growth survey 2016 as regards the social and employment aspects. neither the commission's proposal nor that of the rapporteur is really aimed at creating quality jobs and sustainable growth. basing job creation on lower labour costs, including through taxation, labour market segmentation and simplification of labour legislation i.e. simplification of dismissals will only increase job instability and precariousness and increase poverty levels. we need a policy of strategic investment in education and research, measures to support youth employment and combat youth exclusion, social protection systems that are secure and investment strategies that encourage the creation of quality jobs. only then can we enter a path of sustainable growth. i voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies in the light of an analysis of the social and employment aspects. better and more options that invest and promote employment growth in a sustainable and responsible way are key.
‒ the report essentially seeks to strengthen the eu's economic governance policies, in particular the european semester, by delivering on the annual growth plan, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy or the member state-specific recommendations, in particular on employment and social issues. the rapporteur, who is portuguese, welcomes the country-specific recommendations and the need to implement them, when we know that they are unacceptable and undemocratic, and that in portugal they have imposed compliance with the deficit targets set by the troika and so-called permanent measures of 'budgetary consolidation' - privatisation, the deepening of inequalities, wage theft and the reduction of consumption. the european semester is just another mechanism for attacking the sovereignty of states and their sovereign bodies, deepening the concentration of powers to better implement policies that are contrary to the will, needs and aspirations of the people, processes which we reject categorically. this confirms the need to break with the neoliberal policies imposed by the eu and the imperative need to support economic and sustainable growth in living wages, work with rights, training and qualification of workers, including through public control of strategic sectors. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report integrates many socialist measures: responsible social reforms based on solidarity, integration, social justice and fair distribution of health care; quality and inclusive employment; promotion of employment stability; more investment in social protection systems to prevent poverty and inequalities; introduction of a minimum wage; investment in education to combat unemployment; support for the unemployed, including the long-term unemployed; increased social dialogue; reduction of wage inequalities and equal treatment between national and other member states' workers; inclusion of refugees and strengthening of the social dimension of the euro area, among many others.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate my party colleague, sofia ribeiro, on the excellent report which was put to the vote and which, moreover, received substantial support (about two thirds) from the different political groups in the european parliament. from the resolution adopted today, i would like to stress the importance of the 3 priorities of the 2016 annual growth survey identified by the commission: the revival of investment, an analysis of structural reforms for the modernisation of our economies and the need for responsible fiscal policies. i would also like to stress the inclusion of three indicators in the main scoreboard for analysing the situation in the member states, relating to the activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, which, as the rapporteur has pointed out, brings this annual analysis report closer to the real lives of europeans and represents the commission's commitment to strengthening the analysis of macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ the report essentially seeks to reinforce these themes in the proposals made under the european semester and economic governance, the europe 2020 objectives or in the specific recommendations to each member state. the problem is that it does not call into question the legitimacy of policies which castrate national sovereignty and development, policies which have in fact only contributed to social degradation by masking them with a socialising make-up, in the form of social washing, but without altering their principles. we recognize that the text has some supporting arguments, including objective information on the figures for poverty and extreme poverty, unemployment, unfulfilled targets without statistical manipulation, strengthening of labour relations and collective agreements and the fight against precariousness and insecurity. as has already been stated, the positive aspects of the report do not change the essence of the european semester and the policies of the european union. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: social and employment aspects in the annual growth survey 2016, drawn up by the committee on employment and social affairs, whose rapporteur for the opinion was ms sofia ribeiro, because it stressed the need to pay more attention to social equity in the context of the new national stability and reform programmes, adding three employment indicators (activity rate, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment) to the procedure on macroeconomic imbalances. the report also states that these indicators should be put on a genuine par with existing indicators, which will allow for in-depth analyses in the member states concerned and ensure that their internal imbalances are better assessed. i would also like to stress the focus on creating quality jobs and creating the conditions for growth, which must be at the heart of the policies of the member states and the eu, particularly for young people and the over-55 generation, as a way of building more sustainable social economies.
‒ the european semester aims to coordinate the economic and budgetary policies of the european union in order to increase stability, promote economic growth and employment and strengthen competitiveness. it is impossible to dissociate the single market from this exercise, since it represents the backbone of the member states and is a key instrument for fostering growth, employment and competitiveness. i support the stihler report because it is vital to include the single market as a pillar in the european semester, in particular through a system of regular monitoring and evaluation of single market integration and competitiveness. i would stress the particular attention that must be given to the implementation of existing legislation which is not being complied with by the member states, to the elimination of non-tariff barriers still existing in the market, and to the challenge of digitising the market, which is creating a whole new paradigm for investors, businesses and consumers. investment in the ict sector is crucial if we are to have a competitive edge. the creation of a digital single market will change our lives and the way we interact, changing patterns of behaviour for consumers and economic operators. the unused potential of the single market in this area must therefore be unlocked.
‒ the single market is one of the cornerstones of the european union and forms the backbone of the member states' economies and of the european integration project as a whole. these are the various economic benefits of the single market, including product and market integration, economies of scale, increased competition and a level playing field enjoyed by 500 million citizens in the 28 member states. however, i agree that it is necessary to provide a framework favourable to economic initiative and business development, encouraging competitiveness and cooperation between smes and thus exploiting the industrial potential of innovation, research and technology. on the other hand, it is necessary to carry out appropriate and fair economic and social reforms and to tackle bureaucracy and protectionism in order to improve the productivity and competitiveness of the european economy.
‒ here again we are faced with an uncritical and simplistic celebration of the single market, to which are added considerations on some of the most recent developments at the level of the european semester. the national competitiveness councils are one of the recent changes to the european semester. the commission says that they should monitor competitiveness performance and policies in order to monitor and correct competitiveness differentials between member states and thus avoid 'distortions' to the single market. its real purpose is to contain or force a further reduction in unit wage costs by shifting productivity gains to capital, lowering the weight of wages in national income, i.e. by increasing exploitation. they're just another piece in a structurally undemocratic building. the weak economic recovery resulting from the so-called austerity policies will be the excuse to impose even more austerity and the attack on rights. the single market has accentuated the dismantling of the instruments of sovereign regulation of economies, economic dominance, divergence and development asymmetries, has promoted tax avoidance and profit shifting, privatisation, deregulation of trade relations and concentration of capital. we voted against it.
‒ including the single market pillar in the european semester package will only legitimize, once again, measures that promote competitiveness in the labour market, low wages, flexibility in dismissals, weak social protection and lower tax rates, in the interests of a more competitive and 'productive' single market. this is not the way to sustainable and socially responsible growth market freedoms cannot take precedence over labour and social rights. i voted against it.
‒ the single market is a key instrument for promoting competitiveness, employment and growth in the european union. the measures taken within the single market have a special potential for promoting economic growth and should therefore be given broad consideration in the discussion of the european semester. i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ with regard to the single market, while prohibiting/limiting public control of strategic sectors of the economy, national competitiveness councils are being set up, deepening the institutionalisation of the eu's neoliberal policies. the national competitiveness councils are one of the recent changes to the european semester. the commission says that they should monitor competitiveness performance and policies in order to monitor and correct competitiveness misalignment between member states and thus avoid 'distortions' of the single market. we know very well, however, that its real aim is to control and impose fiscal measures and measures to make work more precarious and to reduce wages. the weak economic recovery will be the excuse to impose more austerity and the attack on the rights of workers and peoples. they are simply intended to monitor the performance of budgetary executions and labour policies, deepening the undemocratic character of economic governance. we know that mechanisms such as the single market have accentuated the dismantling of the instruments of sovereign regulation of economies, economic domination, divergence and development asymmetries, and have promoted tax avoidance and profit transfer, privatisation, deregulation of trade relations and concentration of capital. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a precious resource on which the eu's current and future economic prosperity depends. the untapped potential of the single market, estimated at €1 trillion, is both an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensure that the single market works to our benefit. there are currently too many barriers to trade in the eu and many member states do not implement the decisions they take.
‒ the european semester aims to promote the coordination of economic and fiscal policies in the european union effectively and to stimulate economic growth and employment, while at the same time stabilising the economies of the member states. the aim of the single market must be kept in mind. we must not forget that the single market is one of the cornerstones of the european union. the economic benefits are numerous, including the integration of products and markets, as well as the level playing field enjoyed by 500 million citizens in the 28 member states, which provides more competitive prices, greater product choice, a better quality offer and therefore more favourable conditions for consumers. it seems to me therefore essential to complete the single market without delay in order to achieve structural and sustainable economic growth which captures and encourages investment, is based on standards of transparency and efficiency, which stimulates job creation and which increases the well-being of the citizens of the member states. in turn, job creation will also promote the development of the less favoured regions, contributing to territorial cohesion. i have voted in favour of this report, in view of the points i have mentioned.
‒ the growth outlook for 2016 represents the starting point of a process to which we are strongly opposed. the european semester and economic governance are at the heart of a strategy of neoliberal domination of national budgetary policies. the guidelines in the report, which governments should follow, insist on the same recipe that has sown poverty and unemployment across europe, effectively preventing any alternative strategies to deal with the crisis, with growth-stimulating policies based on public investment and an increase in aggregate demand. there are no cosmetic manoeuvres, whether from the social point of view or through the greater involvement of this house, which can erase the profoundly anti-democratic character of economic and monetary union, which imposes, against the interest of the people and the workers, its neoliberal policies of concentration of wealth. we remain convinced that only the end of emu and the euro can pave the way for alternative development policies, centred on the well-being of people and not on the accumulation of profits.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016, drawn up by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and drawn up by catherine stihler, mep, mainly because it states that the digital single market strategy must be rapidly presented and implemented to ensure that the eu recovers lost ground in relation to the slow adoption and use of digital technologies in the past; because i also agree with the reference to the allocation of national and eu funds to provide the necessary infrastructure, in particular in rural areas; and finally because i note that it is equally important to support digital innovation and the improvement of interoperability and that special attention needs to be paid to issues related to cybersecurity.
‒ relations between europe and tunisia are close and long-standing, with the european union being tunisia's main trading partner and the two countries agreeing to establish a free trade area and to establish arrangements on agriculture and services. tunisia, the cradle of the events known as the 'arab spring', is the only country in the near and middle east and north africa region where a process of democratic and political transition has taken place, and as such is an example for the whole region. i therefore agree with the need to deepen the ties between the european union and tunisia and to promote and strengthen the processes of 'south-south' regional integration between tunisia and its neighbours, in particular through the agadir agreement.
‒ this resolution focuses on the establishment of a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia, which is part of the wider neighbourhood relationship, and is governed by the 1995 association agreement (which for years considered the regime that the tunisian people overthrew by struggle to be a worthy democracy), which provides for the creation of a free trade area and the establishment of provisions on agriculture and services. the opening of negotiations on this agreement is presented (the ultimate cynicism, the ultimate hypocrisy) as a measure to help tunisia, following the june 2015 attacks in sousse. it is also noted that tunisia has taken in more than 1.8 million refugees from libya as a result of the eu-sponsored aggression there, and that this figure corresponds to 16% of the total population of tunisia. the solidarity facade which is being given to free trade does not stand up to the evidence of the facts, which denote its neo-colonial nature, because by seeking to impose economic and social policies which will not benefit the tunisian people, they are instead aiming to open the way for european multinationals which are seeking to colonize the market of this country, with particular attention to the agricultural sector and the service sector of this country. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of negotiations on an eu-tunisia free trade agreement. the eu is tunisia's main trading partner and it is important that trade relations between the eu and tunisia be strengthened. it is equally important to have a more ambitious trade partnership, which will be an opportunity for growth and rapprochement between the two economies. this partnership should contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia.
‒ the report proposes the establishment of a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. the opening of negotiations on this agreement is being justified. from the perspective of being another aid measure for tunisia, following the barbaric attacks of june 2015, to the hypocritical mention that that country has taken in more than 1.8 million refugees from libya, corresponding to 16% of its total population. the latter is a direct consequence of the criminal policy of interference and aggression that the usa, nato and the european union have imposed on the middle east and north africa as part of their strategy to destabilise the arab world and to exploit the economic wealth of these regions. the façade of solidarity which this free trade agreement is intended to cover conceals its real neo-colonialist aspect, which will impose economic policies and structural reforms on tunisia contrary to the interests of its people, opening the door to european multinationals and the exploitation of that country's agricultural and service sectors.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the eu is proposing to extend the eu-tunisia cooperation agreement to include the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, the middle east peace process, and the middle east peace process. the stability and development of the third countries which are close to us must be one of our priorities.
‒ the current framework for trade relations between the eu and tunisia is governed by the euro-mediterranean association agreement, signed in 1995, which entered into force in 1998 and laid the foundations for the establishment of a free trade area. on 13 october 2015, the eu and tunisia resumed negotiations to consolidate a comprehensive and ambitious free trade agreement. as a country in our southern neighbourhood in the mediterranean basin, it seems to us that the conclusion of a free trade agreement is a matter of course. in addition, tunisia is currently facing serious problems of internal, economic and social security, and the conclusion of a free trade agreement is therefore a mechanism to facilitate the economic recovery of that country and an important contribution to its political and social stabilisation and the consolidation of its democracy. given the assumptions underlying the conclusion of the agreement, i believe that it will bring tangible gains for both the european and tunisian economies. however, i would like to draw attention to the need for rigorous sectoral evaluations and monitoring, especially at agricultural level, to avoid any unexpected negative impacts on the economies of both parties.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution concerns the establishment of a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia, which is part of the wider framework of neighbourly relations and governed by the 1995 mediterranean association agreement, which provides for the creation of a free trade area and the establishment of provisions on agriculture and services. the opening of negotiations for this agreement is presented as a measure to help tunisia in the wake of the barbaric attacks perpetrated on 26 june 2015 in sousse. it does not conceal, although it makes a hypocritical mention of it in paragraph 8, that tunisia has taken in more than 1.8 million refugees from libya, and that this number corresponds to 16% of the total population of tunisia. the latter is a direct consequence of the european union's continued interference in the middle east and north africa. but this free trade agreement with a facade of solidarity is, at bottom, neo-colonialist in nature, because it seeks to impose economic and social policies on tunisia which will not benefit the people - on the contrary, this proposal is aimed at paving the way for european multinationals, which want to reach the agricultural and service sectors of that country.
‒ in 2012, the european ombudsman launched a strategic own-initiative inquiry into frontex, which resulted in the proposal for a complaints mechanism open to all. in 2015, this recommendation was supported by the european parliament and is now reflected in the proposal submitted by the european commission for the establishment of a european border and coast guard agency. this is one of the most successful examples of such inquiries, which remain a priority for the re-elected ombudsman. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. over the course of the year, over two thousand complaints were lodged on this and other issues, such as competition and competition proceedings, which resulted in some form of action by the ombudsman. i support this report and welcome the work carried out by the ombudsman in 2014.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the ombudsman opened 325 inquiries based on complaints and 17 own-initiative inquiries. the complaints were mainly from individual citizens (335) and from companies, associations and other legal entities (52). as regards the origin of complaints by country, spain topped the list (309), followed by germany (219), poland (208) and belgium (147). of the 342 inquiries opened by the european ombudsman, 204 (59.6%) concerned the european commission, 47 (13.7%) the eu agencies, 29 (8.5%) other bodies, 32 (9.4%) the european personnel selection office (epso), 12 (3.8%) the european parliament, 13 (3.8%) the european external action service and 11 (3.2%) the european anti-fraud office. in 2014, the ombudsman dealt with 2163 complaints received. in 1217 cases, its services provided advice or transferred the case in 621 cases, the complainant was informed that no further action could be taken and in 325 cases an investigation was opened. the ombudsman's budget is an independent section of the eu budget. the ombudsman's 2014 budget was eur 9 857 002 and the institution's staff included 67 posts. i voted in favour.
‒ the ombudsman opened 342 inquiries, of which 325 were based on complaints and 17 were own-initiative inquiries. the vast majority (59.6%) are from the european commission. the rapporteur proposes that the 2014 annual report be adopted and welcomes the inquiries initiated by the ombudsman, in particular on transparency in the eu institutions and on transparency in the activities of interest groups. this is standard procedure. the european parliament shall examine and adopt a report on the activities of the european ombudsman each year. its intervention is limited to the relationship between the eu institutions and legislation and the citizens of its member states. in general, we agree with what has been said in the report. however, we do not follow and cannot accept your indirect support for the frontex code of conduct for joint return operations and repatriation flights.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. the european ombudsman, established by the maastricht treaty, has a key role in investigating cases of maladministration by the european institutions, thus enhancing the efficiency of the european union's public administration.
‒ in writing. ‒ according to the law, any citizen of the union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state, has the right to petition the european ombudsman in respect of cases of maladministration in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial functions. the european ombudsman shall be competent to investigate cases of maladministration in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial functions. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union'. the rapporteur proposes that the 2014 annual report be adopted and welcomes the inquiries initiated by the ombudsman, in particular on transparency in the eu institutions and on transparency in the activities of interest groups. in general, we agree with what has been said in the report. however, we do not follow and cannot accept your indirect support for the frontex code of conduct for joint return operations and repatriation flights.
‒ this report relates to the european parliament resolution of 25 february 2016 on the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2014. i agree with the adoption of the report and congratulate the ombudsman emily o'reilly for the excellent work she did throughout 2014, in particular her proactivity in terms of research and decisions taken on the transparency of the european institutions, fundamental rights and citizen participation, as well as her efforts to improve the functioning of the body she chairs. for these reasons, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the european ombudsman is competent to investigate cases of maladministration in the activities of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial functions. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union'. under the law, any citizen of the union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state, has the right to petition the european ombudsman in respect of maladministration in the activities of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial functions. we understand the process, but we cannot help but consider that it is only part of a propaganda manoeuvre designed to sell a very democratic and concerned european union to the citizens, when in the concrete reality of its policies it oppresses entire populations in complete disregard of their sovereign will.
‒ despite the european central bank's focus on maintaining favourable financing conditions, private and public investment in the euro area remains considerably below pre-crisis levels. in the context of the complex context of the sovereign debt crisis, falling inflation, credit contraction and stagnating economic growth, the ecb has resorted to unconventional monetary policy instruments. i support the marias report as a whole, as it records the positive effect of some measures, such as the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, as well as the european commission's plan to establish a true capital markets union, which should diversify the sources of finance in the eu economy, boost cross-border investment and increase access to finance for businesses, especially smes. i agree that the supervisory and monetary policy functions of the ecb should be clearly distinguished and should not give rise to conflicts of interest for the ecb, and that the ecb should be subject to democratic control in view of the new responsibilities conferred upon it.
‒ the economic recovery in the euro area is expected to progress, with gdp growth of 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017, but this requires a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms that are essential to stimulating economic growth. unemployment in the euro area itself is expected to decline slowly from 11,6% at the end of 2014 to 10,5% at the end of 2016 with large disparities between unemployment rates in different member states, with figures ranging from 6,4% in germany to 26,6% in greece. the average inflation rate in the euro area, after remaining close to zero in the first half of 2015, is expected to increase again, rising to 1,1% in 2016 and 1,7% in 2017, despite the ecb's continued efforts to maintain favourable financing conditions. the truth is that private and public investment in the euro area remains considerably below pre-crisis levels and the european institutions must continue to engage in a permanent dialogue if europe's economic, social and political objectives are to be achieved.
‒ the report criticises some aspects of the ecb's monetary policy and the rules on its operation. however, its content and general meaning are overall negative. it congratulates the banking union, the emu and the efsi. it calls for the so-called 'budgetary consolidation' to be maintained. it defends 'structural reforms' by sweetening them with (as it were) a so-called 'social balance'. forget the need for separation between investment banking and commercial banking. it opposes the renegotiation and consequent restructuring of debts. it states that the rules of economic governance must be respected and strengthened. it calls for all the tools of the stability pact to be applied. the report does not call into question the profoundly anti-democratic nature of the ecb, nor the fact that it has gone far beyond the scope of its statutory powers by interfering intolerably in the economic policies of the national states. we obviously voted against it.
‒ in compliance with its obligation under article 113 (3) of the treaty, the european central bank publishes a report on the monetary policy and activities of the escb every year. i believe that member states must continue to undertake sustainable structural reforms, which are essential to promote economic growth. i abstained on this report.
‒ despite some criticisms it makes of elements of the ecb's monetary policy or the rules for its operation, the content and general sense of the report are overall negative. it congratulates the banking union, the emu and the efsi. it reinforces the idea of so-called 'budgetary consolidation'. it values 'structural reforms' and seeks to portray them as 'social balance'. forget the need for separation between investment banking and commercial banking. objection to renegotiation and consequent debt restructuring. it stressed that the rules of economic governance should be respected and strengthened and called for all the tools of the stability pact to be applied. the report does not call into question the profoundly anti-democratic nature of the ecb, nor the fact that it has gone far beyond the scope of its statutory powers by interfering intolerably in the economic policies of the national states. we voted against it.
‒ this report notes that the expected recovery in the geographically uneven and modest euro area over the next few years should be stronger and that potential economic growth should increase in order to reduce the high unemployment rates in many euro area member states and to lower the debt burden. it also stressed the need to improve the conditions for both public and private investment to boost growth and job creation, and called for greater efforts to ensure the financing of the real economy. structural reforms must be sustainable and socially balanced. i only regret that an amendment was not adopted which would have provided that part of the european central bank's profits (an average of eur 1 billion per year) could be turned into the union's own resources for investment and the advancement of the european project, rather than going back to the national central banks.
‒ the european central bank has developed an action aimed at ensuring favourable financing conditions for enterprises, especially smes. however, private and public investment in the euro area remains considerably below the levels recorded before the global crisis. in this context, the ecb found it necessary to adopt unconventional monetary policy instruments in order to mitigate the effects of the sovereign debt crisis, inflation with declining signs, credit contraction or even stagnating economic growth. this report not only reports on the positive impact of some measures, such as the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, but also highlights the european commission's plan to establish a genuine capital markets union, which will aim to diversify sources of finance in the eu economy, stimulate cross-border investment and increase access to finance for businesses, and in particular smes. i think it is essential that the ecb should continue to play the role assigned to it by the treaties and that democratic control of its work should be essential in view of its new responsibilities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ although the report criticises some aspects of the ecb's monetary policy and the rules for its operation, it does not call into question its existence and its deeply anti-democratic character, nor does it call into question the fact that the ecb has gone far beyond the scope of its statutory powers by interfering intolerably in the economic policies of the national states. the report goes so far as to express satisfaction with the progress of the banking union, which we strongly oppose. we voted against it.
‒ australia and new zealand are among the european union's oldest and closest partners, sharing common values and even bilateral agreements in some specific sectors. i support the resolution calling for the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with these two countries, as i consider it positive that trade and investment relations will be further deepened to the mutual benefit of both parties, particularly through convergence and cooperation on international standards, without, however, lowering the level of protection of consumers or of social and labour rights.
‒ the deepening of eu-asia-pacific relations is important for economic growth in europe and australia and new zealand are seen as crucial elements of this strategy. the negotiation of two distinct, modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive lca with australia and new zealand, in line with the specific characteristics of these economies, is a pragmatic way to deepen bilateral partnerships and to strengthen already existing mature bilateral trade and investment relations. agree to further analyse all additional market access opportunities for european economic operators, including smes, offered by any lca with australia and new zealand.
‒ australia and new zealand are parties to the recently concluded trans-pacific partnership (tpp) negotiations between the us and a number of countries in asia and oceania. they are also parties to the negotiations on the regional comprehensive economic partnership (rcep) in east asia. we are dealing with trade and investment liberalization agreements covering trade in goods and services (including public services), electronic commerce, public procurement, the energy sector, sanitary, phytosanitary and other regulations, technological research and investment. in this context, it provides for an isds private arbitration mechanism for the resolution of state-investor disputes. these agreements will be compared with the ttip (transatlantic trade and investment partnership), the tisa (trade in services agreement) and the ceta (eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement), treaties which we firmly reject, demanding the immediate end of the respective negotiations, because they call into question the most basic democratic rights, public services, the right to work with rights and the sovereignty of states. the possibility of deadlock in the ttip negotiations and the strategic commitment of the united states to the pacific region are leading european big business and the forces and powers defending their interests not to neglect this region either. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement (fta) with australia and new zealand. australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners and share many common values. trade and investment relations need to be further deepened.
‒ the two countries are involved in the negotiations on the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) between the us and countries in asia and oceania, and in the negotiations on the regional comprehensive economic partnership (rcep) in east asia. we are dealing with trade and investment liberalization agreements covering trade in goods and services (including public services), public procurement, electronic commerce, the energy sector, sanitary, phytosanitary and other regulations and research in the field of technology. in this context, it provides for an isds private arbitration mechanism for the resolution of state-investor disputes. in the same political register, the ttip (transatlantic trade and investment partnership), the tisa (trade in services agreement) and the ceta (eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement) are treaties that we firmly reject, demanding the immediate end of their negotiations because they call into question the most basic democratic rights, public services, the right to work with rights and the sovereignty of states. the deadlock in the ttip negotiations and the strategic stake of the united states in the pacific region are leading european capital and the forces and powers defending its interests to keep their foot on the ground in this region. we voted against it.
in writing. - i welcome the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, as these are two of the only six wto members with which the eu does not have a mutual preferential market access agreement. the opening of the negotiation process will further deepen trade and investment relations between the two economic blocs and allow the pre-existing balance to be restored within the macro-framework of global trade relations, especially after the signing of the recently concluded trans-pacific partnership agreement. the key sectors of this agreement should of course focus on investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, competition, the fight against corruption and, in particular, the needs of smes in terms of facilitating market access in order to generate business opportunities for both parties. i also agree with the view that a more detailed analysis of the opportunities and constraints that this agreement may have for european economic operators is needed, while safeguarding the interests of smes and respecting international standards on consumer, environmental and human, social and labour rights protection. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
‒ the opening of negotiations on a possible free trade agreement with australia and new zealand requires a balanced approach in the agricultural sector to protect european producers. the european union should defend the quality names which are characteristic of european products and the rules on sanitary and phytosanitary matters. new zealand is a highly competitive country in the milk sector, being a key player in the formation of world prices and exporting around 90% of its production. the european milk sector is in a serious crisis and in the process guarantees must be given to protect it.
‒ australia and new zealand are parties to the recently concluded trans-pacific partnership (tpp) negotiations and to the ongoing negotiations on the regional comprehensive economic partnership (rcep) in east asia. the agreements are intended to cover investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, the energy sector, public enterprises, sanitary and phytosanitary regulations and research in the field of technology and are, of course, aimed at enforcing the isds (investor to state dispute settlement) system. if these agreements are implemented, they will be on a par with the ttip (transatlantic trade and investment partnership), the tisa (trade in services agreement) and the ceta (eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement), trade agreements which we oppose and call for the immediate end of negotiations, because they call into question the most basic democratic rights, such as public services, but also the right to work with rights and the sovereignty of states.
‒ pets make a positive contribution to the lives of millions of eu citizens, and eu legislation already provides for the possibility for owners to travel with their animals safely and in a controlled manner throughout the eu. however, although many member states have implemented mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, there are discrepancies as regards the type of information held, the animals covered by the identification and registration requirements and the level of governance to which information is provided. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. i support this resolution, which calls for a system of compatible standards for the registration and identification of these animals, thus combating illegal trade and even outbreaks of animal diseases.
in writing. ‒ non-governmental organisations, law enforcement authorities, competent authorities and veterinarians have demonstrated the existence of a growing illicit trade in pet animals, marked by widespread violations of the regime for the movement of pet animals, controls evasion and falsification of documents, and associated with serious and organised crime. i therefore support the existence of a compatible system for the identification and registration of pet animals in the eu which will certainly have benefits beyond simply combating illegal trade, benefits which include tracing the source of disease outbreaks and combating animal abuse and other animal welfare concerns.
the resolution calls on the european commission to facilitate the establishment of a system of mandatory identification and registration of pet animals, allowing access to pet data registered at national level to obtain an eu-wide traceability system, stressing that the personal data of pet owners and sellers must be respected in accordance with eu legal standards on the protection of personal data. it also urged the european commission to explore further measures to combat the illegal trade in pet animals contained in the conclusions of the study on the welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices. the proposal is to harmonise the requirements for the identification and registration of dogs and cats, which could reduce the possibility of falsification of documents and illegal trade, thus improving animal welfare and the protection of public and animal health, and providing for effective traceability in the eu. increasingly, pet owners are traveling with their pets. it is important that they can do so in a safe and controlled manner, given the existence of over 100 zoonotic diseases in these animals and the risks that come with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the introduction of pet registration systems that are compatible in all member states. since the european commission has funded a study on the welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices and it has been demonstrated by the competent authorities and veterinarians that there is a growing illegal trade in pet animals, with widespread violation of the pet movement regime, evasion of controls and falsification of documents, i think it makes perfect sense to adopt this resolution.
‒ there is an increasing trend towards the movement of pets on the move with their owners. such movement should be possible in a safe and controlled manner, taking into account the existence of more than 100 zoonoses in these animals and the risks arising therefrom. the resolution calls on the european commission to facilitate the establishment of a system of pet registration and compulsory identification which will aggregate data at national level and enable the creation of an eu-wide traceability system. stresses that the personal data of pet owners and sellers should be respected in accordance with eu legal standards on the protection of personal data. it also called for further measures to combat the illegal trade in pet animals to be explored, as contained in the conclusions of the study on the welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices. it is proposed to harmonise the requirements for the identification and registration of dogs and cats, which could reduce the possibility of falsification of documents and illegal trade, thus improving animal welfare and the protection of public and animal health.
‒ the positive contribution of pets to the lives of millions of people and families in the eu is recognised and, as such, it is already provided for in european legislation that pet owners can travel with their pets in a safe and controlled manner throughout the union. however, despite the requirement by some member states to implement systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, there remain numerous differences in the applicability of both the information on animals subject to identification and registration requirements and the way in which that information is managed. because of this somewhat complex reality, the illegal and abusive use of the pet movement regime has been exploited within the eu for illicit purposes and in the pursuit of easy profit. unfortunately, this is a reality that has tended to increase in recent years. i therefore voted in favour of this report, since the aim is to achieve unification of the rules for the registration and identification of these animals in a single system, thus effectively combating illegal trade and, in many cases, outbreaks of animal diseases.
in writing. ‒ although many member states have mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, most of these databases are not interconnected, preventing full traceability when animals are moved across member states' borders. in addition, where such systems exist, there are discrepancies between the type of information held, the animals covered by the identification and registration requirements and the levels of governance at which the information is held. the resolution therefore proposes that the identification and registration requirements for dogs (canis lupus familiaris) and cats (felis silvestris catus) be harmonised, which would reduce the possibility of falsification of documents and illegal trade, thereby improving animal welfare and the protection of public and animal health, and providing for effective traceability in the union. we voted yes.
‒ the current crisis in yemen is the result of the failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security by creating the conditions for an outbreak of violence. since the start of the conflict, at least 5,979 people have been killed, about half of them civilians, and 28,208 people have been injured. in 2015, the eu allocated €52 million in new humanitarian aid to the crisis in yemen and its impact on the horn of africa and will allocate up to €2 million to the establishment of the united nations verification and inspection mechanism. i express my concern at the alarming worsening of the humanitarian situation in the country, characterised by a situation of widespread food insecurity and acute malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks against civilians, doctors and members of humanitarian organisations, destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure and the intensification of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition, ground fighting and shelling, despite repeated calls for a new cessation of hostilities.
the serious situation in yemen is inseparable from a process in which foreign powers exploit memories, feelings, tribal and feudal relations, stoking ethnic and religious conflicts, generalising corruption and criminal trafficking, and encouraging and exploiting terrorism, always for their own benefit. imperialism is multiplying conflicts in the middle east which, as in syria, are causing immeasurable human suffering, destroying countries whose wealth transnational capital is trying to seize. this generally positive resolution identifies several problems felt at the present time by the yemeni people, but it is lacking in what is needed. it does not expressly condemn the role of imperialist powers such as the united states and other countries whose actions have contributed to the deaths of thousands of innocent people, as was the case with the bombings of sana and aden. it proposes a political solution to the situation but does not categorically reject future external interventions in yemen. there is no condemnation of the role of the dictatorships of the persian gulf, particularly saudi arabia, in the military aggressions imposed on that country. despite the difficult situation facing the yemeni people, we have full confidence that even in this tangle of contradictions and conflicts fuelled by foreign aggression, the struggle for freedom which the yemeni people are pursuing will triumph.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in yemen. the instability in yemen is very worrying. there are millions of people who need humanitarian aid right now. it is extremely important that the eu continues to play a constructive role in trying to find solutions for stability in the country and to put an end to the violence.
the serious situation in yemen is part of a process in which imperialism exploits tribal and feudal survivals, stirs up ethnic and religious conflicts, generalises corruption and criminal trafficking and encourages and exploits terrorism, always for its own benefit. imperialism is multiplying conflicts in the middle east which, as in syria, are causing immense human suffering, destroying countries whose wealth transnational capital is seeking to seize. this generally positive draft resolution, which identifies a number of problems felt at the present time by the yemeni people, is lacking in substance. it does not expressly condemn the role of imperialist powers such as the us and other countries whose actions have contributed to the deaths of thousands of innocent people, as was the case with the bombings of sana'a and aden; it proposes a political solution to the situation, but does not categorically reject future external interventions in yemen. there is no condemnation of the role of the dictatorships of the persian gulf, particularly saudi arabia, in the military aggressions imposed on that country. despite the difficult situation facing the yemeni people, we are fully confident that even in this tangle of contradictions and conflicts fuelled by foreign aggression, the struggle for freedom which the yemeni people are pursuing will triumph.
‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen is alarming, characterised by widespread food insecurity and acute malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, doctors and members of humanitarian organisations, destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure caused by the intensification of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition, ground fighting and bombing. the eu must reiterate the absolute need for a cessation of hostilities and make every effort to provide humanitarian aid.
in spite of the measure it presents, the draft resolution on the situation in yemen is lacking in many respects: it does not expressly condemn the military action of saudi arabia, which has contributed to the provocation of this situation and is responsible for the death of civilians; it addresses the need for a political solution, but does not expressly reject further external military interventions; it does not condemn the collusion of member states with the dictatorships in the region, and it does not expressly condemn the arms trade developing in the region. what is happening in yemen is part of a process of general subversion, in which imperialism exploits all kinds of conflicts in the countries to justify its aggressive and militarist strategy. the strength of the heroic struggle of the yemeni people, which allowed them to defeat imperialism and colonialism in the past, will be the same strength that will enable this people to conquer the values of democracy and peace and achieve the social transformations they desire.
mr president, the idea behind this programme is a positive one. however, how it is put into practice can make all the difference. firstly, we do not understand why the two programmes were merged, despite the opinion of the technicians who preferred the existence of two separate and autonomous programmes. secondly, we would stress here that this programme will only succeed if it is firmly anchored in a strategy of local development, a strategy of promoting local production and which can contribute to greater social and territorial cohesion, reconciling the city with its rural surroundings. thirdly, it is important to say that this strategy will fail if we continue to have the aggressive presence of fast food chains at the doorsteps of schools, or if we continue to have, even within schools themselves, vending machines distributing all kinds of foods that are not recommended for healthy eating. the state and the public school system are a decisive element in this battle to defend our children and our young people.
i would also like to join in congratulating the rapporteurs on this report. the acquisition of eating habits that promote better health, especially among younger populations, must be part of public policy objectives. the agreement on the scheme to support the distribution of fruit and milk in schools is a public investment in this direction. a dual objective is added by encouraging the demand for agricultural products from short circuits, thus favouring local agricultural production. i welcome the positive discrimination granted to the outermost regions, which, under certain conditions, will be able to benefit from a higher level of aid because of supply difficulties or adverse market conditions. this mechanism may prove particularly important at this time of crisis in the sectors concerned, in particular the milk sector, and for the azores - and here, my dear friend gabriel mato, i would remind you that they also produce bananas - as a contribution to the disposal of products and thus a price guarantee for milk producers.
mr president, commissioner, the animal health strategy must contribute to the prevention and control of animal diseases, with particular attention to antimicrobial resistance. this is a public health issue, given the frequency of the same diseases in animals and humans and the hypothetical transmission of antimicrobial resistance between animals and humans, recently corroborated by a study carried out in china and published in late 2015 in the respected journal the lancet. the way in which this issue is approached in practice should take account of the specificities of production in different regions of europe, especially with regard to climatic conditions that favour the occurrence and transmission of diseases. the conditions imposed on european producers in the field of animal health must also be taken into account in trade negotiations with third countries.
mr president, today, with the increasing mobility of people, animals and foodstuffs, the risk of emerging diseases and zoonoses that were previously controlled is growing exponentially - for example, classical swine fever or african swine fever, which are once again present on the european continent. it is regrettable that during this period the european union has reduced by about 10% the funds available for the control and eradication of these animal diseases, when an effort to meet the challenges of globalisation would be expected. good words are always welcome, but good intentions are full of hell. at a time when intensive farming is being promoted and all the food safety and welfare standards are being levelled down in the ttip framework, it would be good if all the guidelines we are discussing here could actually serve something and if this debate were not just another pointless and totally inconsequential initiative.
madam president, ports and port work have long been under attack by big business and its political representatives. forcing down the value of the labour force is vital to reduce costs and increase profits in a context of increasingly fierce global competition, increasingly liberalised and deregulated markets and the progressive privatisation of the port sector, driven by the european union. the situation in portugal is exemplary. protected by the troika's meddling and its rule by hand, the patronage saw an opportunity to return to the days of the fairy tale houses, of unbridled exploitation. they are never satisfied with the precariousness that already exists, they want to go further, they always want to go further in exploitation. it was worth it, until they created a puppet union, but it was also worth the unity and combativeness of the dock workers. let us not be fooled, this is what can stop the european commission, the interests it defends and its serious attempts to defend workers' rights and the national interest.
the european parliament's initiative, in the context of the application of article 128 of the regulation, to ask the european commission, on behalf of the committees on industry, research and energy (itre) and internal market and consumer protection (imco), questions on the creation of effective conditions for the development of a thriving data economy, demonstrates that parliament has taken on the strategic nature of the digital agenda for the future of the european project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the questions raised about the stability of the legal framework, support for infrastructure development and the focus on research and training in a context of promoting digital inclusion are also critical.
madam president, the laws of the market, the volatility of agricultural and food prices are now endangering agricultural activities whose scope and nobility go far beyond their merely economic and commercial dimension. thousands of farmers are now on the verge of bankruptcy and are demanding immediate and vigorous action. we must free agriculture and farmers from the forces of the market economy to which the european institutions have surrendered. we demand the restoration of the public price guarantee systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only public regulation of supply can save our production model, based on small and medium-sized family farming, the only truly sustainable model from a social, environmental and territorial point of view.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your words, although some of us like flowers, this is certainly not a day just for making flowers, it is a day to celebrate equal rights, which are yet to be achieved, and to celebrate also the recognition of the difference between men and women. i am a little tired of repeating the same exact things and the same formula every year, because the socioeconomic situation of women in europe is simple: inequality has increased, the wage gap has increased, unemployment has increased, violence against women has increased and often in the most brutal way. in my country, for example, 29 women died last year alone as victims of domestic violence, and the problem is indeed political. i think it would be important for the commission not to deal with this socioeconomic inequality merely with quotas and words, but to bring in politics because, as i said, the problem is political. acknowledging that austerity has been a failure would be a good start. putting the maternity and parenthood directive back on the agenda would be a great sign that we do not want just words, because this commission, madam commissioner, got off on the wrong foot when it withdrew the maternity and parenthood directive, it does not want to really acknowledge that inequality exists. i want us to come here every year and talk, but our words have consequences.
madam president, the european institutions are lavish in their profusion of gender approaches which, around the implementation of equality policies and the promises associated with them, only mask the negative impacts that austerity policies impose in the aggravation of inequalities, discrimination and exploitation of women. the exploitation and impoverishment policies emanating from the european union and implemented by governments have promoted and worsened inequalities. women are the most affected by poverty, unemployment, precarious employment, wage discrimination, plus discrimination in and for motherhood. the commission has decided to abandon the maternity directive and it is urgent to take it back. the increasing difficulty of reconciling personal, family and professional life is compounded by the deregulation of working hours, a situation aggravated by the attack on the social functions of the state and the destruction of public social security systems. it is not possible, madam president, to promote equality without the necessary break with these right-wing and social regression policies.
madam president, commissioner, a genuine policy to promote gender equality must tackle the causes of inequality, and those causes are today predominantly cultural and economic. i shall refer only to the first part. we cannot remain silent in the face of institutionalized forms of discrimination, such as the catholic church, which continues to prohibit women from entering the priesthood and even from administering the sacraments, simply because they are women. the catholic church is politically organized in a state, the vatican, and so we must all demand that the head of that state, the pope, put an end to this intolerable discrimination between men and women within it. when that happens, we will surely take a big step, if not to end, at least to reduce, and a lot, the gender inequality in the world.
member of the commission.– madam president, i always appreciate having the opportunity to discuss gender issues and gender policy in parliament, because this is always important inspiration for our work in the commission. let me just react briefly to the points members raised in the discussion. on better work-life balance, some of you mentioned that we withdrew the maternity leave directive. we did it to prepare something better, something which will be better fitting with current needs – if you remember, we could not continue with the maternity leave directive because two—thirds of member states simply said that they already have it or need something fresher, something newer. so we are preparing – and it is a priority for me for this year in the work package for 2016 – the package of legislative and non-legislative proposals which will improve the balance between work and family life. and exactly as you said here, this is to open up choices for women – it is nothing like dictating or under-estimating the role of mothers. at this moment, the situation is the following: many young women who studied at universities – and 60% university leavers are women – have to decide whether to have children or whether to have a career. this is not possible, and also from an economic point of view, it is so irrational. we need to create the conditions for women to have both children and a career with highly qualified work. i really do not like the saying that it is the right of women to have children. of course it is. i am a mother, and it is the best role i have ever had or could have in my life. but still, is it not society which needs children? to put it in a very cynical, or economic, way, society needs children, society needs future taxpayers, and why should only women bear this burden? this is not sustainable anymore. so this is where we tried to work, and this is our direction in working on this new package. the new things we want to bring in with this package are not only better arrangements for women, but better arrangements for working parents, and this is the real result from the previous proposals. on the pay gap, of course we need to find the proper instruments to decrease the pay gap. you are right, the 16% average pay gap in some member states is very high – and it is even higher because it is the average figure. the 39% or even 40% pension gap is something which is not tolerable anymore, and i keep pushing the member states to introduce into their national social and tax legislation measures which will decrease this pension gap and pay gap, because it is created in a large percentage due to the fact that women are caring for their families. this is the vote of society, so we must find the right instruments over this year. i do not want to speak for too long, so just to quickly address the issue of multiple discrimination which ms soraya post spoke about: we face a very serious situation in europe, because we see these horrible cases. i speak to people who work with roma citizens, and i also spoke to many roma citizens directly. they say that the women pay the accounts for the family, and they are the victims of violence from the side of those who require the money back. this is physical violence; it is nothing like soft pressure, and that is just one example. we need to do more in fighting multiple discrimination. a last comment on more women in decision-making positions: you know that i try to promote the women on boards directive, and i would like to inform you that this directive has been changed quite considerably under my portfolio, because i wanted to make it more gender neutral. there was a myth – which really hindered the process – that the women on boards directive meant that highly-qualified men experts would be replaced by some women. we only want fair competition, and i think this is a very good direction for this directive. i would like to see the member states which already have the law, like germany and france and some others, to help us achieve the same result in the other member states. i want to say that for more women in the decision-making positions it must not be a matter of one directive. let us not create legislation; let us create proper policy, because this concerns not only the business sphere, where i myself have some reservations about how far to go, but it especially concerns public life and public positions, politics, and also – i am the commissioner for justice – in the sphere of the judiciary, because there we also do not see many women in high positions. so thank you very much. i will finalise this positive message to send to the men: the idea that women want to fight is wrong – we want to cooperate. with this approach, things could change even more quickly, and it will also need cooperation on the side of men who understand how important this is. thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for your continuous effort to help and to support. i esteem it very much.
in writing. international women's day is marked by a profusion of gender approaches, references to equality policies, promises of equality. the eu institutions themselves are lavish in these approaches. but they almost always fail to mention aspects such as the profoundly negative impacts of existing policies (designed, advocated and imposed by the eu) in terms of worsening inequalities and discrimination and exploitation of women. the policies of exploitation and impoverishment, which emanate from the european union and are implemented by governments, have promoted and worsened inequalities. women are the most affected by poverty, unemployment, precarious employment, wage discrimination, and discrimination in maternity. in this respect, it is worth remembering that the juncker commission is preparing to throw the proposal for a maternity directive into the trash. it's a landmark move. the increasing difficulty of reconciling personal, family and professional life is added to this, in particular by the deregulation of working hours. this situation is aggravated by the attack on the social functions of the state, the destruction of public social security systems, and the reduction in the value of important social benefits. it is not possible to promote equality without the necessary break with the policies of social regression that generate inequality, oppression and exploitation.
in writing. in europe, poverty, unemployment and exploitation have a female face, as all the statistics in the system bear witness. the policies of exploitation and impoverishment, emanating from the european union and implemented by governments, have promoted and worsened inequalities, particularly affecting women. women are the most affected by poverty, unemployment, precarious employment, wage discrimination, plus discrimination in and for motherhood. it is significant that the european commission has abandoned the maternity directive. the austerity policies, with the attack on the social functions of the state, the destruction of public social security systems, together with the reduction in the value of important social benefits, have aggravated the situation. only a complete break with these policies can pave the way for an improvement in gender inequalities. everything else is just apps designed to fool the public.
‒ animal health is a matter of concern for all european citizens, both because of its relevance to public health, food safety and food security linked to animal health, and because of the economic costs of animal disease outbreaks and the value of animal welfare. i support the selimovic report which approves the council's position at first reading on the regulation on transmissible animal diseases, laying down new rules on the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to other animals or to humans, such as avian influenza and swine fever. the regulation replaces some 40 pieces of legislation, placing greater emphasis on preventive measures, disease surveillance and research, and providing for greater cooperation between animal professionals, pet owners, authorities and veterinarians.
in writing. ‒ about 70% of infectious diseases are common to animals and humans. the new eu animal health regulation puts greater emphasis on preventive measures, disease surveillance and research and provides for greater cooperation between animal professionals, pet owners, authorities and veterinarians. the new rules clarify the responsibilities of operators and professionals working with animals, such as farmers, pet owners and veterinarians, to prevent the introduction, development and spread of diseases. for example, farmers, persons selling animals and animal keepers will be responsible for the application of good animal husbandry practices and for the prudent and responsible use of veterinary medicinal products. i voted in favour.
‒ the process of simplifying and updating eu animal health legislation has been ongoing since 2013. this final text, which is still under consideration, is better than the one originally presented by the commission. it is accompanied by an annex containing three statements. a joint action plan to address the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. another concerns the regular reporting of the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals. and another on animal welfare, noting that this regulation laying down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans does not contain provisions specifically governing animal welfare. of course, the productivism of the current cap and the capitalist production models, which lead to a higher incidence and prevalence of infectious diseases in animals, and the consequent defence of other agricultural policies, must be criticized. there are still a number of doubts about the aquaculture sector, which supplies a large proportion of the fish that reaches the consumer's table. the commission has not yet clarified what it means by 'aquatic health professionals' and what guarantees they offer consumers.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health ('animal health act'). the new rules on the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to other animals or to humans are essential. the avian flu is a case that demonstrates this danger. that is why animal disease surveillance has never been more important. greater preventive measures, more research and greater cooperation between professionals working with animals, especially authorities and veterinarians, will be needed. for the first time, european legislation recognises a link between animal health, animal welfare and public health.
‒ this proposal concerns european legislation in the field of animal health, which replaces some 40 european legislative acts, some of which date back to 1964. i am voting in favour of this report because i am in favour of the creation of a single, simplified, transparent and clear legal framework which will allow for a clear and balanced distribution of tasks and responsibilities between the competent authorities, the institutions of the european union, the agricultural sector, animal owners and others, in the field of surveillance, prevention and control of different animal diseases. animal welfare is of the utmost importance, including for public health, as approximately 70% of infectious diseases are common to animals and humans. i agree with the importance of establishing rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to animals or to humans.
‒ the resolution deals with the process of simplifying and updating eu legislation on animal health, which has been dragging on since 2013. the annex to the final text contains three statements concerning (i) the establishment of an action plan against the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance and the consequent expected reduction in the use of antibiotics in animals; (ii) the regular reporting of the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals in the union; and (iii) animal welfare. the latter notes that this regulation does not contain provisions specifically regulating animal welfare, which cannot be dissociated from animal health. the resolution could and should have gone further, criticizing and rejecting the productivism of the current cap and the capitalist production models that lead to a higher incidence and prevalence of infectious diseases in animals, and advocating another agricultural policy. there are still doubts about the aquaculture sector, which is the source of an increasing share of the fish that reaches the consumer's table, in particular as regards the clarification of the category of 'aquatic health professionals' and the guarantee that they can offer to consumers.
‒ this report endorses the council's first reading position on an action plan against the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. it also stressed the preventive role of the regulation on transmissible animal diseases and the expected reduction in the use of antibiotics in animals as a result. i voted in favour of this report because it commits the member states to collecting detailed, comparable and relevant data on the actual use of antimicrobials in animals and to transmitting this data to the commission, in order to ensure a more prudent use of these medicines, thus contributing to reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance.
‒ the european parliament has adopted new rules on the prevention and control of animal diseases which can be transmitted to other animals or to humans, such as influenza, foot-and-mouth disease or swine fever. greater emphasis is placed on preventive measures, disease surveillance and research, with greater and better collaboration between animal professionals, pet owners, authorities and veterinarians. it is essential that this adherence to the principles of good breeding and to biosecurity measures for the protection of animals and humans is put into practice.
‒ the animal health strategy should contribute to the prevention and control of animal diseases, with particular attention to antimicrobial resistance. this is a public health issue, given the frequency of the same diseases in animals and humans and the hypothetical transmission of antimicrobial resistance between animals and humans, recently corroborated by a study in china. the way in which this issue is approached in practice should take account of the specificities of production in different regions of europe, especially with regard to climatic conditions that favour the occurrence and transmission of diseases. the conditions imposed on european producers in the field of animal health must also be taken into account in trade negotiations with third countries.
‒ we can praise the principle of 'putting legislation together', replacing 50 directives and regulations and more than 400 other legislative acts, using a holistic approach that brings together human and animal health in a single public health concept and also seeks to integrate the issue of animal welfare as a basic element in the health status of our domestic species. however, this is of course a risky aim, since it carries underlying the idea that it is possible and desirable to give more powers to the european institutions in health management and the control and eradication of the main zoonoses. nothing more fake. good sanitary management requires proximity and knowledge of the terrain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health sector is not affected by the new rules. what the eu could and should do is to radically change the cap, since it generates intensive production, the emergence of new diseases and the intensive use of medicines. this would indeed be a major step towards improving animal health by reducing the impact of zoonotic diseases.
‒ i voted in favour of the selimovic report because i believe that this proposal improves the animal health law by obliging animal operators and keepers to respect the principle of animal welfare in animal husbandry and to adopt biosecurity measures to protect their animals. another obligation is to use veterinary medicinal products responsibly and prudently, in particular to prevent the development of antimicrobial resistance. finally, in the interest of animal welfare, pain and suffering should be avoided when carrying out disease control measures.
‒ following the european parliament's position on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations on the regulation on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments, i support once again the new scheme approved today, which brings together in a single framework two programmes for schools which were previously separate: the fruit and milk distribution scheme, with a budget of eur 250 million per school year. this will simplify the administrative procedures for the two programmes and reduce the administrative and organisational burden on national authorities, schools and providers. i welcome the educational part of the programme which encourages young people to adopt healthy consumption habits by introducing them to agriculture and educating them about the origin of food, and the increase of eur 20 million for the milk programme which was achieved in the negotiations.
‒ 22 million children in the eu are overweight. teenagers consume, on average, only 30 to 50 percent of the recommended daily allowance of fruits and vegetables. many children grow up not knowing where the food they eat comes from, where and how it is produced and what are seasonal products, according to data cited by the commission. in 2013/14, around 10 million children in the eu benefited from the fruit distribution programme and 19 million from the milk programme. the report, which i voted for, provides for a budget of eur 150 million for fruit and vegetables and eur 100 million for school milk per school year. the new rules aim to promote healthy eating from an early age, strengthen the educational component of programmes and bring children closer to local products.
‒ it is positive that it has been possible to include in the basic act the total amount and figures for the two envelopes (fruit and milk), ensuring that the council cannot unilaterally cut funding for these programmes in the future. however, the amount will not be sufficient to meet the requirements arising from the need to encourage the consumption of these products by schoolchildren and to facilitate access to them without economic constraints. as regards the criteria for allocating the budget to the member states, the additional 20 million decided for the milk programme should ensure that no member state loses as a result of the introduction of these criteria. member states should give priority to the distribution of fresh products over processed ones in order to encourage healthy eating habits among children. the overall positive impact of these schemes is such that the diversion of funds for advertising purposes (in particular eu promotion) is to be criticised. despite efforts to increase consumption, the fact is that the declining trends in consumption of these products have not yet been reversed, and the existence of the two school systems therefore remains valid. unfortunately, many of the amendments we proposed have been rejected. these schemes could be improved, particularly in the areas of promotion of local and traditional products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. the eu should encourage healthy lifestyles and eating habits from childhood. childhood obesity is a serious problem today. the eu should encourage and strengthen the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. the health of eu children must always be a priority.
‒ the apparent decline in the consumption of fruit, fresh vegetables and dairy products, combined with the increase in childhood obesity, as a result of dietary habits that increasingly favour processed foods rich in added sugars, salt, additives or fat, should be given special attention by the european union. i believe that the union should encourage its member states to promote more healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products, especially in schools. member states, taking into account their food consumption reality, should devise their own strategies to combat the decline in the consumption of milk, fresh fruit and vegetables, combining the efforts of local and regional products distribution. i agree with the rapporteur that the european union's financial assistance should be allocated to each member state according to its level of development, in order to ensure greater support for the less developed and the outermost regions, given their limited agricultural diversification and the frequent impossibility of finding certain products in the region in question, which implies higher transport and storage costs.
‒ the requirement to guarantee budgetary appropriations in the basic act for the fruit and milk programmes was secured through several proposed amendments, ensuring that the council cannot unilaterally cut funding for these programmes in the future. we consider these amounts to be insufficient to meet the need to encourage the consumption of these products at school age by ensuring access to them without economic restrictions. the scheme states that member states must give priority to the distribution of fresh products over processed ones, with a view to encouraging healthy eating habits. the objectives of the scheme are laudable, but they are diluted by the diversion of funds which could be used for the distribution of fruit, fresh vegetables and milk for advertising purposes. the old strategy of selling the idea that you do good on a large scale, when practice so often belies it. we believe that the scheme can still be improved, particularly in the areas of the promotion of local and traditional products, the improvement of the evaluation and monitoring system of the school milk scheme and the school fruit distribution system, in order to ensure that it is possible to measure the effectiveness of these schemes in the medium to long term. we voted yes.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the draft budget. this new programme will combine the milk distribution scheme with the school fruit, banana and vegetable scheme, reducing the administrative burden and freeing up more resources. the commission has also managed to raise eur 20 million for milk distribution, so that no member state will lose money under the new financial allocation criteria. the list of products to be distributed has been extended, the limitation of transfers of funds between the two programmes has been defined and the educational aspect has been strengthened, bringing our young people closer to the producers. finally, there is in fact positive discrimination against the outermost regions, since they have greater difficulties in implementing this programme, and they are granted an increase in the funds initially provided, an incentive for trade between the outermost regions and an increase in the percentage of transfer authorized between the two schemes. i believe that this programme will help young europeans to increase their consumption of fresh products, especially milk, to develop healthy eating habits and will contribute to the disposal of european agricultural products.
‒ it is worrying that only 36% of europeans eat the recommended five portions of fruit and vegetables a day. one in three european children is overweight. the eu is expected to give priority to fresh, unprocessed local products in order to encourage healthy eating habits among children. member states retain the possibility of additionally distributing other dairy products such as plain yoghurt and cheese. as regards fruit, processed vegetables or fruit yoghurts and chocolate milk, the european parliament accepts these only if they incorporate sufficient safeguard measures. for example, chocolate or other flavoured milk will have to be at least 90% milk and only this can be funded by the eu. from now on, the addition of artificial sweeteners and flavors is banned in products distributed in schools. products containing added sugar, salt and fat are prohibited unless authorised by the national health authorities. the vote in favour of this report is excellent news for the health of the 30 million schoolchildren who will benefit from it, and for the dynamisation and consolidation of a direct relationship between producer and consumer.
‒ the acquisition of eating habits that promote better health, especially among younger populations, should be part of public policy objectives. the agreement on the new scheme to support the distribution of fruit and milk in schools is a public investment in this direction. a dual objective is added by encouraging the demand for agricultural products from short circuits, thus favouring local agricultural production. i welcome the positive discrimination granted to the outermost regions, which, under certain conditions, will be able to benefit from a higher level of aid because of supply difficulties or adverse market conditions. this mechanism could prove particularly important at this time of crisis in the sectors concerned, in particular the milk sector and the azores, as it would help to ensure the disposal of products and thus guarantee prices for milk producers.
‒ the idea behind this programme is positive. however, how it is put into practice can make all the difference. firstly, we do not understand why the two programmes were merged in the face of the opinion of the technicians who preferred the existence of two separate and autonomous programmes. secondly, we would stress here that this programme will only succeed if it is firmly anchored in a local development strategy, a strategy for the development of regional production and which can contribute to greater social and territorial cohesion, reconciling the city with its rural surroundings. thirdly, it is important to say that this strategy will fail if we continue to have the aggressive presence of the big food chains at the doorsteps of schools, or if we continue to have, even inside schools, vending machines distributing all kinds of food that nutritionists do not advise for healthy eating. the state and public schools are a decisive element in this battle to defend our children and young people.
‒ i voted in favour of the tarabella report on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments because i believe that the proposal presented promotes the consumption of healthy and fresh food by school-age children, helping them to establish healthy eating habits. under this scheme, member states will be able to distribute milk and other milk products such as plain yoghurt and cheese and to include other local, regional or national specialities such as honey, table olives and olive oil. as a general rule, products containing added sugar, salt and fat will be prohibited and may only be authorized after being approved by the national health authorities. finally, the administration of the scheme will now be more efficient because it will operate through a single programme, which merges the milk programme with the fruit and vegetable chain programme.
‒ the european commission has moved forward with a proposal for a regulation establishing a regulatory framework for access to port services and financial transparency in ports. through this regulation, the european commission intends to make a major contribution to increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of european ports in the trans-european transport network. the development of european legislation governing port activities is of great importance, since it makes a decisive contribution to the standardization of management practices and defines common general rules necessary for healthy competition between european ports. however, improvements were needed to the initial proposal in order to, among other things, provide greater flexibility for port administrations and to strengthen the protection of workers. the rapporteur of the document we have just voted on sought to fill these gaps by introducing amendments which won the support of the s&d, epp, alde and gue political groups. in view of the relevance of the legislation under consideration and the clear improvement which the amendments introduced by the tran committee promote, i have decided to vote in favour of the report under discussion.
‒ the main objectives of the proposal are to modernise port services and operations and to create structural conditions to attract investment in ports. by means of this regulation, the commission aims to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. however, the scope of the regulation should only cover port services offered directly to users. moreover, the social provisions governing the labour regime in ports have been virtually excluded from this regulation, but member states must ensure the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of undertakings or establishments.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the legislative process on ports in the trans-european transport network. the regulation should therefore establish an organisational framework for port services, a set of rules on financial and cost transparency to be applied by management bodies (public or private) or providers of port services. the commission considers that the measure is selective because it does not involve state aid. the amendments tabled by the european parliament in its committee on transport to the commission's initial proposal improve the original text considerably, with direct implications for portugal: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of workers are applied in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is interesting, for example, to note the concern expressed for the "users" of ports. paradigmatic and funny. at the same time as public transport users become customers, port customers become users. the vote will be taken at the next voting time. we voted in favour of the amendments to the european commission proposal, which make it less bad, and we voted against the original proposal and the amended final document.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a regulatory framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. it is of the utmost importance that the performance of all ports is improved so that they can cope with evolving logistics and transport needs. modernisation of port services and operations is also important to attract investment to ports.
in writing. ‒ i believe we must have a strategy that makes our ports more competitive and efficient not only at european level but also at global level. this regulation allows union ports to maintain their port management models. it is not a total opening up of ports, because this regulation allows access to the market for port services to be limited, for reasons of space limitation, by the need to apply public service obligations. there is a respect for the diversity of them. an example of this is the commitment to exclude ports in the outermost regions, such as madeira, from the scope of this regulation. since these regions are 100% dependent on maritime transport, this single european model for access to the market for port services has a special derogation for them. i hope that this commitment to the outermost regions, reached in the committee on transport, will be maintained in the negotiations with the council and in the final approval.
‒ the report deals with the legislative process for ports in the trans-european transport network. a regulation should establish an organisational framework for port services, a set of rules on financial and cost transparency to be applied by management bodies (public or private) or providers of port services. it excludes market operations, passenger handling and piloting services. the proposals put forward by the european parliament to the initial proposal of the european commission improve the original text very significantly, with direct implications for portugal: they exclude piloting, introduce relevant labour issues and reduce the degree of liberalisation imposed. they do not, however, prevent the final result from being negative, since it is entirely in line with the logic of liberalization. it is interesting, for example, to note the concern expressed for the "users" of ports. at the same time as public transport users become customers, port customers become users. a paradigm that can only be a black humor punchline. we therefore voted in favour of the amendments to the european commission proposal which make it less bad, but we voted against the original proposal and the amended final document.
‒ this report, which i voted for, seeks to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changing logistics and transport needs. it should be noted, however, that the scope of the regulation should only include port services offered directly to users. the report recognises that various systems of organisation of port services are currently in place and aims to amend provisions on minimum requirements, limitation of the number of service providers, public service obligations and social safeguards. the amendments emphasise the need for the port administration to be autonomous in order to act in accordance with its economic strategy, while respecting certain fundamental principles. in general, the aim is to create legal certainty for ports and to have a positive impact on the proper functioning of the ten-t network.
‒ the european parliament has approved a proposal for a reform of the union's port services focusing on transparency, ensuring workers' rights and safety and environmental commitments. the proposal also aims to modernise port services and operations and to create structural conditions to attract new investment to ports. the commission aims to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. an important condition for competition between ports on a level playing field is the existence of a clear framework on state aid rules. this regulation shall apply to all maritime ports identified in the guidelines for the ten-t (trans-european transport network), with some voluntary exceptions, in particular for ports located in the outermost regions.
‒ about 90% of world trade is carried by sea. in europe alone, its 1200 ports employ three million people. these facts reflect the importance of this issue in the european context and beyond. it is important to liberalise ports so that they operate in a commercially efficient, financially transparent way and that unfair competition is eliminated, but it is essential to ensure that the social rights of their workers are not affected. i believe that the report presented, with the amendments suggested in parliament, adequately responds to the challenge put forward by the european commission. because i consider it crucial that the ports of the outermost regions of the european union be managed in accordance with their specificities, i also voted in favour of amendments nos 4 and 50. we cannot treat what is different in the same way, and as safeguarded in the treaties and in this context, the ops are different.
‒ it should be noted that the amendments proposed by the european parliament, in its specialised committee for transport, to the initial proposal of the european commission improve the initial text very significantly, with direct implications for portugal: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of workers are applied in the member states. however, we do not subscribe to the final version because it is based entirely on the logic of liberalization. it is interesting, for example, to note the concern expressed for the "users" of ports. ironically, at the same time as public transport users become customers, port customers become users. the vote will be taken at the next voting time. we voted in favour of the amendments to the european commission proposal, which make it less bad, and we voted against the original proposal and the amended final document.
‒ i voted in favour of the feckenstein report because i believe that it will increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the maritime ports of the transeuropean transport network, without undermining the social and labour rules in force in the member states. i would stress that the report guarantees the right to strike, since collective labour actions taken in accordance with the national legislation of the respective member state and/or the applicable agreements between the social partners are not considered as interruptions of port services for which emergency measures can be taken. the report also provides for financial transparency provisions to ensure fair competition and to avoid price abuse, in particular where port services are not subject to effective competition. finally, i would stress that the report also takes account of the specific situation of ports in the outermost regions.
‒ the proposal for a regulation establishes a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices and house prices at union, national and subnational level. hicps provide a measure of inflation which, together with other sources, provide valuable inputs to deflate economic indicators such as wages, incomes, interest rates and therefore serve as a basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. i support the gualtieri report because i think it is crucial that these statistics are objective, unbiased and comparable in all member states and for all product categories, thus allowing a review of the current regulatory framework and maximum comparability for the main users of these indices.
‒ the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices at union, national and sub-national level. hicps provide a measure of inflation which, together with other sources, provide valuable inputs to deflate economic indicators such as wages, incomes, interest rates and therefore serve as a basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore crucial that these statistics are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories. i am in favour of the proposal, in particular, because it includes information on the impact of tax changes on inflation.
‒ the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps). the hicp provides a measure of inflation and forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is important that these statistics are objective and comparable between member states, covering all product areas, without forgetting the diversity of consumption structures in the different member states. the current hicp regulation dates back to 1995 and therefore needs to be revised. the current proposal also takes into account the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, which gives the commission (in this case eurostat) the power to adopt implementing acts or legislative measures that may amend non-essential parts of a regulation delegated acts. in the commission proposal many activities are being defined through delegated acts, as is the definition of the appropriate methodology to produce harmonised indices between countries, or to update the weights of the sub-indices of the hicp. our opposition to this proposal in committee, which we maintain, is based on the possibility that the inclusion in future indexes of illicit goods and activities such as narcotics, gambling, prostitution and others may not be excluded. we consider that unacceptable.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95. it is essential to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices and house prices at union, national and sub-national level. the statistics shall be objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories. the current hicp regulation dates back to 1995, so it is very important that the hicp regulation be updated.
‒ the protection of the european union's financial interests and the efficiency of public spending must be fundamental elements of eu policy, so that citizens' confidence in the correct, efficient and effective use of their money is increasingly strengthened. the multiplicity of legal systems in each member state makes the fight against fraud difficult and the eu should make efforts to intensify the fight against fraud in order to make it effective and with tangible and satisfactory results. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should address the problem of divergent approaches by member states to detecting irregularities and heterogeneous interpretations in the application of the eu legal framework. i think it is essential that we develop a mechanism for the exchange of information between the competent authorities, so as to allow cross-checks of accounting records between member states, with the aim of preventing transnational fraud. the rapporteur shares the rapporteur's concern about the increase in smuggling, trafficking and other forms of illicit and illegal trade, which have an impact on the collection of customs duties by the member states and, consequently, on the eu budget.
‒ the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps). the hicp provides a measure of inflation and forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is important that these statistics are objective and comparable between member states, covering all product areas, without forgetting the diversity of consumption structures in the different member states. the proposal to revise the current hicp regulation, which dates back to 1995, takes into account the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, which gives the commission (in this case eurostat) the power to adopt implementing acts or legislative measures that may amend non-essential parts of a regulation delegated acts. in the commission proposal, many activities are being defined through delegated acts, as well as the definition of the appropriate methodology to produce harmonised indices between countries, or to update the weights of the sub-indices of the hicp. we have expressed our opposition to the proposal in committee and in plenary, as it does not exclude the inclusion in future indexes of illicit goods and activities such as narcotics, gambling, prostitution, among others. we consider this unacceptable.
‒ this report establishes a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. the report intends to include in the analysis of inflation information on the impact of physical changes on inflation. hicp-ts are an important tool for analysing the causes of inflation and for forecasting the impact of future fiscal changes on inflation, hence this draft report proposes that hicps and hicp-ts be broken down into categories according to the european classification of individual consumption by purpose. the report also calls for euro area member states to provide monthly rapid estimates and for the discrimination of rapid estimates of hicp, opi and hicp to be adopted by means of implementing acts. finally, it was decided that the commission should present to the european parliament and the council every five years a report assessing the main results of pilot studies. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ this proposal for a commission regulation updates the existing statistical methodology and establishes a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hpis) at union, national and sub-national level. hicp-ts are an important tool for analysing the causes of inflation and for forecasting the impact of future fiscal changes on inflation and correcting macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ we do not monitor the possibility of including in price indices certain products from illicit activities such as prostitution or drug trafficking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the union's financial interests are not only linked to the allocation of funds, but also to the collection of taxes, such as vat. the control is therefore essentially carried out at national level. the real knowledge of this reality is also dependent on the national authorities and therefore, as the report rightly points out, the transmission of information must be exemplary. something that hasn't happened yet, even though it's possible to have a good photograph already. the data available remain worrying at almost all levels, with the most notable being the failure of member states to recover funds after their return has been ordered. in this context, the report also recommends that the institutional and legal framework be strengthened. the importance of completing the legislative process of the so-called financial interests protection directive is underlined. i therefore support this report.
‒ member states and the commission share responsibility for implementing 80% of the union budget and are the main responsible for collecting own resources, in particular in the form of vat and customs duties. efficiency of public spending and the protection of the eu's financial interests must be key elements of eu policy in order to increase citizens' confidence in ensuring that their money is used correctly, efficiently and effectively. according to this report, the reported irregularities involve a total amount of around eur 3,24 billion with an overall financial impact of 36% higher than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%. of the 16 473 irregularities reported to the commission in 2014, 1 649 were fraudulent, involving an amount of eur 538,2 billion. i agree that the commission should take full responsibility for recovering unduly paid funds from the eu budget and for collecting own resources more effectively.
in writing. the committee on budgetary control draws up an annual own-initiative report on the protection of the 'financial interests of the union', which also includes information on irregularities and fraud cases reported by the member states, which has been increasing in percentage and in amount. the report regrets that member states use 'different definitions for similar types of crime and that not all [collect] identical and detailed statistical data according to common criteria, which makes it difficult to collect reliable and comparable statistics at eu level'. it called for the criteria for assessing irregularities and fraud to be harmonised in the member states and for the member states to impose sanctions on those who fail to comply. the commission is also asked to present guidelines to help harmonise fraud assessment. it called on the commission to play a more active role in monitoring the control and supervision systems in the member states and to recover funds unduly paid to the eu budget. the report regrets that the criminal law systems are only partially harmonised, and calls for a regulation to establish the european public prosecutor's office. while accepting and advocating the need to improve the fight against fraud, we do not follow some of the considerations and proposals made in the report.
‒ the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, i.e. the protection of the union's financial interests, should be placed as a priority on the union's agenda. this is an obligation of the european union to protect the rights of taxpayers against criminal offences which cause serious damage to the union budget. i would stress that the creation of a european public prosecutor's office in coordination with national authorities is of fundamental importance for the protection of the financial interests of the union. i voted in favour.
‒ the protection of the european union's financial interests and the efficiency of public spending must be fundamental elements of eu policy, so that citizens' confidence in the correct, efficient and effective use of their money is increasingly strengthened. the multiplicity of legal systems in each member state makes the fight against fraud difficult and the eu should make efforts to intensify the fight against fraud in order to make it effective and with tangible and satisfactory results. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should address the problem of divergent approaches by member states to detecting irregularities and of heterogeneous interpretations in the application of the eu legal framework. i think it is essential that we develop a mechanism for the exchange of information between the competent authorities, so as to allow cross-checks of accounting records between member states, with the aim of preventing transnational fraud. the rapporteur shares the rapporteur's concern about the increase in smuggling, trafficking and other forms of illicit and illegal trade, which not only have an impact on the collection of customs duties by the member states but also, as a consequence, on the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the presentation of this report, the main thrust of which is to get the commission to clarify the main reasons why member states are not following up on cases of alleged fraud affecting eu financial stakeholders, as presented to them by the european anti-fraud office. the report found that the total amount of irregularities reported was around eur 3.24 billion, and that the simplification of rules and procedures by the member states and the commission would reduce the number of such irregularities. it therefore calls for awareness-raising by all institutional bodies at european, national, regional and local level, as well as by the general public. there is also concern about improvements in communication, stating that despite parliament's numerous calls for the establishment of uniform principles of communication in all member states, the situation remains very unsatisfactory. it also considered that this problem creates a distorted picture of reality in relation to the level of infringements and the protection of the eu's financial interests and therefore urged the commission to make a firm effort to resolve the problem of divergent approaches by the member states. i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the total amount of irregularities reported in 2014 is eur 3.4 billion. the impact of these irregularities increased by 36% compared to 2013. the number of irregularities increased by 48%. in 2014, the rural development sector reported the most irregularities. the priority is to reverse this trend. the commission is proposing a biannual eu anti-corruption report, protection for whistleblowers, interruption or suspension of payments in accordance with a relevant legal basis and harmonisation of the methodology for calculating error rates, among other measures.
‒ this is an own-initiative report on the protection of the financial interests of the union, which also includes information on irregularities and fraud cases reported by the member states, which have been increasing in percentage and in amount. the report regrets that member states use different definitions for similar types of crime and that not all collect identical and detailed statistical data according to common criteria, which makes it difficult to collect reliable and comparable statistics at eu level, and calls for the criteria for assessing irregularities and fraud to be harmonised in the member states and linked to their sanctioning measures for non-compliants. it called on the commission to play a more active role in monitoring the control and supervision systems in the member states and to recover funds unduly paid to the eu budget. the report regrets that criminal law systems are only partially harmonised, and calls for a regulation to establish the european public prosecutor's office, creating another institution and extending the eu's powers over national states.
‒ taking advantage of international women's day, the european parliament adopted a set of reports, which it integrates, highlighting the much that still remains to be done in defence of women and, more than that, for gender equality. discrimination between men and women is unacceptable. but it's not enough to just promote inequality outside the door. parliament, in the exercise of its legislative powers, but also in its functioning, must also take care of gender equality. however, without distorting the independence of its elected representatives, nor the will of the electors they represent, nor an administration that claims to be meritocratic. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i still support this report but i reiterate the importance of continuing to promote a change of mindsets through equality of opportunity, not of outcome.
‒ gender mainstreaming implies the integration of a gender perspective in the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and expenditure programmes with a view to promoting equality between women and men and combating discrimination. it has a twofold dimension: it requires both the integration of the gender perspective into the content of the different policies and the approach to the issue of the representation of women and men in these policy areas. the report proposes a set of measures to strengthen and make more effective and efficient the current gender mainstreaming structure, including the creation of a strong interinstitutional network, the appointment of a permanent rapporteur on gender mainstreaming and the strengthening of the influence of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on gender-related aspects of the budget.
‒ this report analyses the level of gender mainstreaming in parliamentary committees and other european parliament activities. it advocates the integration of the gender perspective into all aspects of eu policy and points to a number of measures to achieve this. it also argues that such integration must include the rights, perspectives and well-being of lgbtiq people. it recalls that the organisational structure of parliament has different bodies responsible for the development and effective integration of gender, both at policy and professional level. notes that among parliament's staff, women remain in the majority in the group of assistant posts and that, unfortunately, the gender balance objectives at senior, intermediate and senior level, adopted in 2006, were not achieved by the end of the term (2009), or even this year. the report calls for interinstitutional cooperation to promote gender mainstreaming, stressing the need for continuous dialogue with national parliaments to learn about good practice, new techniques and information gathering. we agree with the general concern expressed in the report and with some of the measures advocated, even if we do not follow all of them.
‒ equality between men and women is a fundamental right recognised by the european union, as well as a common value and a necessary condition for the full implementation of the eu's objectives for growth, employment and social cohesion. the european commission has been committed since 1996 to adopting a policy to promote gender equality by involving the gender perspective in the implementation of legislative measures and policies. the resolution aims to continue this process by promoting a greater gender mainstreaming in all measures taken by the european institutions, whether in the drafting of legislative texts, budgetary policies or in promoting the representativeness of women in middle and senior posts within the administration. i voted yes.
‒ i voted against the report on the integration of the gender perspective in the european parliament's activities. i think the rapporteur has deviated from the main objective of the report.
‒ article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) establishes gender mainstreaming as a horizontal principle and article 2 of the treaty on european union (teu) establishes the principle of equality between men and women as a fundamental value of the union. i have decided to abstain on this report because certain prerogatives are set out in the report which must respect the principle of subsidiarity, given that, for example, quota issues are a matter for the member states.
‒ the report analyses the level of gender mainstreaming at both staff and members' level in the work of parliamentary committees and in the activities of the ep. the report finds that in the ep too, despite a wide range of recommendations, there are significant inequalities between men and women, with women representing the majority in the lowest function group and being underrepresented at the middle and upper management levels. the report recommends mainstreaming gender into all aspects of eu policy and suggests measures to achieve this. many of the recitals and proposals in the report are positive. others refer to administrative measures which do not address the underlying problems of the inequalities identified. the report as a whole, moreover, forgets the real causes of the inequalities between men and women. it also omits the reality of another level of ep workers and the impact of the inequalities that occur there - cleaning, security, catering and other workers. we abstained.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which reaffirms the integration of the gender perspective, adopted at international level, as a strategy leading to the achievement of equality between men and women. in practical terms, gender mainstreaming implies the integration of gender into the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and expenditure programmes with a view to promoting equality between women and men and combating discrimination. this report shows that, however, structural inequalities between men and women are still entrenched in society. even where legislation treats women and men equally, women still do not have the same access to or control over resources and assets. the current situation therefore demonstrates that gender sensitive policy content is essential for a good equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have more than once advocated the need for gender mainstreaming, gender impact assessment and a gender budget in all policy areas and at all levels of the european union. this is the only way to combat the many inequalities that persist and it is up to us to set an example.
‒ the level of gender mainstreaming in parliamentary committees, as well as at staff level in the ep's activities, is analysed in this report. the aim is to mainstream a gender perspective into all aspects of eu policy. several measures are proposed to implement it. the organisational structure of the ep has different bodies responsible for the development and effective integration of gender, both at policy and professional level. however, it is noted that among ep staff, women still make up the majority of the assistant function group and that, unfortunately, the gender balance targets at senior, intermediate and senior level, adopted in 2006, were not achieved by the end of the term (2009), or even this year. so there's still a lot to do.
‒ regarding the issue of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu from the point of view of women, this report contributes to the advancement of this discussion, which is of such importance at this time, and shows particular care when it highlights the problems that a certain 'gender blindness' can mean for women who, fleeing societies that discriminate against them in a sometimes so cruel and inhuman way, deserve special precautions from those who host them so that they are not victims of other forms of discrimination. i will vote in favour of it because it not only draws attention to the specific problems that lead women to seek asylum, in the case of those who flee to avoid being victims of genital mutilation, but also contains recommendations for them to be provided by the host countries with a set of inclusive conditions and to show understanding of the diversity of problems and needs that afflict people who arrive in the eu in this situation. i would like to end by stressing my agreement with the rapporteur when she says that the present humanitarian crisis is exacerbating inequalities in gender relations and that we must do even more to harmonise good practice in the treatment of women asylum seekers and refugees.
‒ on international women's day, the european parliament adopted a set of reports, including this one, highlighting what remains to be done for gender equality. this in particular was intended to highlight a particular reality in this context and for which much work still needs to be done in europe: women asylum seekers and refugees. the report paints a striking portrait of the horrors these women are subjected to and lists a set of recommendations to the member states, which still remain primarily responsible for reception, application analysis and integration. the need to inform these women that their request may be independent of the husband - often the aggressor - is exemplary. however, the report also goes beyond what should be its main objective, including areas where there is no community competence, such as abortion. i can only abstain.
‒ in 2014, half of the world's refugee population were women and girls. there is a historical tendency for international conventions and national asylum policies to ignore the specific situation of women asylum seekers and the gender dimension of refugee situations. given their nature, it is difficult to obtain accurate statistics on the demographic diversity of refugees trying to reach europe. the european union's asylum policy must take account of women's experiences at all stages. i therefore agree that this time of uncertainty and instability is also an opportunity to harmonise good practice in the treatment of women asylum seekers and refugees in europe.
‒ this report addresses existing and to be taken measures in relation to women asylum seekers. according to unhcr, in january 2016, women and children accounted for 55 percent of those who arrived in greece seeking asylum. the report calls for forms of gender-based violence and discrimination, including but not limited to rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, domestic violence, so-called honour crimes, to be valid grounds for seeking asylum. the report calls for measures that respond to the needs of women during the asylum application process, which are positive and relevant. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it considers that even in countries considered safe, women can be victims of gender-based persecution and lgbti people can also be subject to abuse, which makes their request for protection legitimate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound. unfortunately, the report does not express any critical position on the causes of the thousands of refugees who are fleeing their countries.
‒ women and children account for about 35% of refugees. this group is in a highly vulnerable situation, fleeing persecution and violence in their home country, and subjecting themselves to dangerous routes to europe in search of safety. unfortunately, when they arrive here, their vulnerability is not given particular attention. this report draws attention to the need for asylum policies and procedures to be sensitive to gender issues, gender-based violence such as rape, forced genital mutilation, forced marriages, domestic violence, among others, which must be valid arguments in asylum applications. however, reception centres for refugees should be prepared to receive them, providing appropriate medical care, sanitary facilities and gender-segregated dormitories where necessary, legal and psychological counselling, as well as promoting measures to facilitate their integration into the host country. i voted yes.
‒ i voted against the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. i think the rapporteur has deviated from the main objective of the report.
‒ women represent on average one third of asylum seekers. between the beginning of 2015 and november of that year, some 900,000 people crossed the mediterranean and reached europe's shores, representing women and children about 38% of the total. i have decided to abstain on this report because i believe that all refugees should be welcomed and treated well in the territory of the european union and that there should be no discrimination on grounds of gender. i believe that all refugees, whether men or women, should have the best possible living conditions.
in writing. this report focuses on the measures to be taken in response to the so-called refugee crisis, with particular reference to women and children seeking asylum. the number of women and children arriving in europe has been increasing, accounting for about 55% of the total number of refugees. the report advocates safe and legal pathways to the eu and seeks to frame a broad set of situations that constitute valid grounds for seeking asylum. it is positive, but it does not depart from the logic of creating restrictions on those who, fleeing hunger, poverty and war, seek refuge on european soil, aiming at the distinction between refugees and migrants. the report calls for measures to meet the specific needs of women and children during the asylum application process, around the registration process, psychological support, access to health care, including sexual and reproductive health care, non-detention of children, the creation of adequate facilities for maternal care, labour market integration measures and access to language courses and free, quality public education. despite the absence of any critical position on the causes and the responsibilities of the eu in the origin of this exodus, we voted in favour of the report.
‒ it is difficult to obtain accurate statistics on the demographic diversity of refugees trying to reach europe. however, current studies suggest that more men are coming to the eu seeking international protection than women and children. this is mainly due to the lack of protection women face during the journey. women are often left behind to care for children and elderly relatives and many are not independent enough to leave their home country. those who manage to escape are vulnerable at all stages of the journey - in the countries of origin, transit and destination - and one of the concerns of the report is that eu asylum policy should take into account women's experiences at all these stages. the acts of violence they are victims of are often committed by non-state actors, including family members. persecution occurs when the state cannot or will not grant protection to women. the report therefore states that a new comprehensive package of eu gender guidelines should be adopted in the wider context of reforms to migration and asylum policy, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ in 2014, half of the world's refugee population were women and girls. historically, there has been a tendency for international conventions and national asylum policies to ignore the specific situation of women asylum seekers and the gender dimension in refugee situations. asylum systems have largely been examined on the basis of male experience. although the establishment of the common european asylum system (ceas) has been achieved, laws, policies and practices in the member states continue to vary significantly and there are significant gaps in the protection afforded to women seeking asylum in the eu. this report suggests a series of measures to ensure that the specific needs of women and girls seeking asylum are taken into account by member states.
the report calls for measures to meet the needs of women during the asylum application process, such as individual registration of women, the granting of documents guaranteeing individual safety, independently of their spouse and other family members, specialist trauma counselling and psychosocial assistance, counselling provided by professionals with expertise in all aspects of the different forms of violence against women, etc. the committee also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of children are respected and that the right to education is guaranteed. however, the report makes no critical reference to the real causes of these refugee flows and does not condemn the eu for its involvement in the wars from which refugees flee. in this sense, it does not point to the fundamental solutions that are needed to resolve the fundamental question and that have to do with a policy of peace and cooperation which the eu is not able to put into practice.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. thank you, mrs mogherini, for the clarifications you have brought here. we are indeed in a different phase of the ceasefire, but it is fragile, and not only fragile, as it is a very complex situation and it did not take long to start seeing more interference and more interference, in particular from saudi arabia, which wants to impose conditions which i believe are one of the reasons why the negotiations have been postponed once again. conditions which seek to impose exclusivity, for example, on the opposition parties that are represented, excluding, for example, a fundamental part, such as the syrian kurds. that said, there have been positions from all sides, from the united states, from russia. i want to reinforce the position of staffan de mistura, the united nations mediator, which seems to me the most reasonable of all. i mean, this is a syrian issue and any solution that is found depends solely and exclusively on the syrian people and i ask you, mrs mogherini, when will the european union have an autonomous position that does not depend on the will of the united states, does not depend on the will of saudi arabia, does not depend on the will or the conditions of the other parties that are not solely and exclusively the syrian people, because that, yes, will determine whether or not there is success in these negotiations.
since 2011, we have seen the syrian people's revolt against dictator assad transformed into a civil war by sectarian and proxy war between saudi arabia and iran, by turkey's support for infiltration of terrorist groups, resulting in the destruction of the country, in unbearable human suffering, in the greatest humanitarian catastrophe since world war ii. everything on the doorstep of europe but with europe to the east. the russian intervention has exposed the emptiness and the disarray of europe. five years in which the member states were unable to act in a coordinated and strategic way, either through the common foreign and security policy for a negotiated settlement of the conflict, a common security and defence policy to help the kurds, iraqis and syrians in the fight against the terrorist occupiers and to secure the liberated areas for the displaced populations or even a humanitarian emergency policy capable of creating living conditions in the refugee camps, including education for children and young people. we are not just feeding the reasons why thousands of refugees every day seek refuge in europe. we are offering more lost generations to extremist and terrorist recruitment. this conflict has opened the door to the terrorist hydra, not only in syria and iraq, but also in libya, where it directly threatens our own security. the european union cannot continue to live in denial and to feed the illusion that it can contain the conflict at the borders and outsource the refugees who flee it to turkey and other neighbours. i commend mrs mogherini for finally getting the european union to press for a ceasefire agreement, but munich will not last without the kurds also at the table. it is not enough to manage the crisis, we must address the root causes. for that we need a europe of solidarity and strong political leadership. the immoral deal which the european council seems to have made yesterday with erdogan's turkey unfortunately does not give any indication of the leadership we so badly need.
mr president, it would be good if this ceasefire agreement in syria could bring an end to the deadly war that has been going on for five years, but the foundations on which it is based are fragile. from the united states comes news of a hawkish alliance advocating military escalation against the syrian government and russia, bringing more weapons to the ground. let us be clear, this ceasefire agreement is the result of the dramatic situation of the terrorist groups on the ground, the result of military collaboration between the syrian government and its russian and iranian allies and hezbollah. terrorists, it is good to remember, the pay of the united states and its allies, a kind of american foreign legion, as someone has already suggested. as for the floods of refugees that are pouring into europe every day, they are like stones thrown in the face of the european union, reminding it of its own responsibilities in the operation of destabilisation, interference and war in syria. aside from the shame of yesterday's summit, to hear you here today talking about things that only the syrian people can decide, we fear, madam vice-president, that nothing has been learned from all this.
it is a point of order, madam president, and i would ask that the speeches be slower, because otherwise the interpreters do not interpret and you do not hear, you do not understand. therefore, i ask you to ask the speakers to speak more slowly so that the interpreters can give a correct interpretation so that those who do not speak the same language can understand what is being said.
madam president, we appreciate the commission’s efforts, but the greek solution and the turkish solution will show their limits quite soon. so we really need stronger european solutions to regain control of the situation: in order to safeguard schengen, to respond to refugees according to european values. we also need a real european border, not a kind of wired wall, but rather a new concept of a border system which should be advanced infrastructure, with the proper information and logistic capacity and providing useful services. a border control, managing the refugee flow and also assisting the refugees with human standards. we believe this should be organised, promoted and financed as a strategic public investment, which should be there to prepare europe for the 21st century and to reorganise its relationship with the neighbourhood in more positive terms.
madam president, my country is showing that ‘european solidarity’ are not empty words, but the way to face this, the worst refugee crisis since world war ii. it is an existential crisis for the eu as the un high commissioner for refugees put it, here today. portugal received this week 64 refugees by chartered plane from greece, assisting easo to relocate human beings undergoing inhuman treatment at the closed borders of fyrom, after austria and other neighbours ganged up to violate the schengen system, international law, eu council decisions and sheer decency. more refugees are expected later this week, thanks to the proactive response of the government of portugal. but, what about other eu governments? why are the european commission and the european council so prone to punishing portugal and greece for failing to meet deficit decimals and not acting against hungary, austria and other members who gang up to bomb european solidarity and torture women and children who asked for protection in europe? could it be for the same reason that the european council allowed itself to be blackmailed yesterday by president erdoğan’s turkey?
madam president, mr vice-president, the statements by the president of the council last week in greece, the conclusions of yesterday's summit and even his statements here today on the european agenda on migration are a clear indication of the inhuman and criminal nature of the european union's policies in this area. the same people who have promoted destabilization, chaos and underdevelopment in the places where the migration flows originated are now telling the victims: "forget it, don't come to europe, if you do you will be expelled, without appeal or aggravation". this agenda violates international conventions, disregards the right to international protection of asylum and accentuates the repressive and selective nature of the european union's immigration policy, which is now even supported by the nato war machine. persecute, criminalize and expel those who seek a better life in europe, unless, as skilled labour, they can tap into the great european capital. this is also, and perhaps above all, a sign of the deep crisis in which the european union is plunged - a crisis which reveals its true face, throwing down false principles and proclamations.
madam president, three key ideas about this programme which you have called better regulation and the interinstitutional agreement which supports it. first, better lawmaking is needed. second, by what criteria and serving what interests? it is the competitiveness of enterprises - read the interests of the major european economic groups - which, as we can see, will determine the timing and content of legislation, and this criterion, which is superimposed on social and environmental criteria, could still be of some use in improving people's living conditions. secondly, there are more serious limitations to the democratic nature of the legislative and decision-making process. the door is open to greater concentration of power in the european commission and to limiting the capacity of co-legislators, especially members, to intervene. third, transparency. the declarations of good faith in this respect do not translate into concrete measures. access to documents and meetings continues to face numerous obstacles, to the detriment of the transparency of the legislative process, and we know that it is in the shadows that the powers that be are asserted. they are the ones this program is primarily for.
madam president, commissioner, the budget of the european union, representing only about 1% of gross domestic product, or rather gross national income, is an important budget for investment. it is a budget where administrative expenditure represents only 6% of that budget and has an unquestionable added value, as is shown by the provision of its guarantee for a plan such as the juncker plan, which will mobilise 315 billion in investments, has already mobilised some 50 000 million euros, also an instrument, this budget which allows investment in many member states to exceed 50% with the revenue coming from that same budget alone. it contributes to growth, it contributes to employment and, at the same time, to territorial cohesion and social cohesion. and to do that, in 2017, regional operational programmes need to be at cruise speed. it is important to support smes, to promote competitiveness and to do this we must pay particular attention to horizon 2020, to cosme, among other programmes. erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative are initiatives that must continue. moreover, the emergency that we are facing, as in the case of this refugee crisis, cannot leave us indifferent, and in this sense we must use all the resources available and all the solidarity, all the flexibility, to deal with this emergency.
mr president, this time we really need to think big if we want to avert the risk of a political, geostrategic and moral failure of the european union. we need to organise safe corridors from the origin and transit countries for refugees. this is for sure, but most of all we need to build up the means to regain control of the situation with our own response. i believe this implies the building of a real european border to protect schengen. i am not speaking about a wire wall. i am speaking about advanced infrastructure providing useful services of border control, making sure that refugees are received with decent standards and organising relocation across europe, and then integration. this is the priority for us if we want to regain control of the situation. this should be organised as a big strategic investment for the sake of europe. we are dealing with the vital interests of europe, and these investments can create many new jobs for europeans. that is why i see a connection between dealing with this refugee crisis and addressing solutions for a stronger recovery in europe. i count on the dutch presidency and the commission to come up with more ambitious solutions for the next european council.
mr president, commissioners, what happened at the summit with turkey and what is going to happen at the next european council reminds us of some of the darkest pages in european history. in the face of a humanitarian tragedy affecting millions of human beings, a tragedy in which the european union has direct and indirect responsibilities, in the face of millions of human beings fleeing war, hunger and extreme poverty, the european union, backed by the nato war machine, is responding by intimidating, humiliating, criminalising and expelling immigrant refugees. the european union is thus demonstrating a shaky ethical and moral dimension, and is thus demonstrating its decrepit state, fuelling a xenophobic, racist, intolerant, authoritarian and anti-democratic agenda. if you look at history, you realize that there's a big risk that this is all going to blow up in your face one of these days, but maybe that's what some of you are thinking about. these decisions will force hundreds of thousands of people to take other, perhaps more dangerous, routes, and will lead to further tragedies in the mediterranean. i don't know if they'll sleep well at night or not. one thing is certain, these tragedies will have political responsibility.
mr president, i would like to say that today, at this very moment when we are speaking here, the new president of the portuguese republic has just taken office and he has made a clear statement in the direction of protecting the values which i think we must protect here on the refugee question, which are the humanitarian values and the identity values of europe. that means, first of all, that we have to make a huge humanitarian reception, we have to give a big support to greece. i am very pleased to see that in this council money has finally been released so that greece can cope with the situation in which it finds itself and i also think that it is very important, on the one hand, that nato respond, which is a response, let us say, of emergency to ensure border control, but it is even more important that at the council on 17 and 18 march we can finally start with a european police force for coastal and border control. this is the first step towards european security and defence. i would remind you that the latest bertelsmann foundation survey shows that 79% of europeans are in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard and that they support a common policy on immigration and asylum, not a national policy and not a shared policy, a common european policy, and that they support the redistribution of refugees among the 28 countries and not just one, two or three. it is a majority of 70 and 80 per cent at the level of europe as a whole and even in those countries which are more reluctant, such as the visegrad countries, this survey says that the majority is around 55 per cent, 60 per cent. so with this support from european public opinion, i think that the next european council has no reason not to take a big step forward in defence of our values, more security and more humanity.
mr president, in a european council whose central themes are migration and the priorities in terms of growth, employment and competitiveness, it is essential not to make a mistake in the diagnosis, and the diagnosis is very clear. it was not migration that triggered the european crisis, but the political, economic and social anaemia of the european union that turned a problem that could be managed in solidarity into a serious identity crisis of the european project. during the european semester, the commission shall address recommendations to the member states. these recommendations, especially for the countries in greatest difficulty, are paradoxical and lack internal coherence. on the one hand, it recommends, and does so well, the focus on education, vocational training, research, the upgrading of the value chain, the fight against macroeconomic imbalances, but on the other hand it demands blind cuts in the central functions of the state which constitute the pillars necessary for these reforms to be possible. we need, mr president, a new impetus for the european project, vision and leadership, european leaders who, for once, are up to the challenge.
mr president, turkey should be part of the solution for this crisis, but it is very much part of the problem, not just by manipulating the people-smuggling tap but in fuelling violent conflict in its southern region and in neighbouring syria and iraq. the council neglected all that and succumbed to unashamed blackmail by president erdoğan under the foolhardy idea that it is possible to outsource european legal and moral obligation towards refugees to turkey in exchange for facilitating accession and of visas and turning a blind eye to the violations of the copenhagen criteria and to the brutal repression that president erdoğan is directing against turkish citizens and media, against turkish kurds in particular, and against kurds in syria who have been brave fighters against daesh and other terrorist groups. what the council contemplates in the return and readmission policies in the ‘one per one syrian’ bazaar is, ominously, violation of the non-refoulement principle. how can the council and the commission keep a straight face when speaking of the rule of law and human rights if they do not act to discipline those member states who ganged up to asphyxiate greece and to submit refugee women and children to animal treatment at the greek fyrom border.
turkey is a truly indispensable player in the response to the refugee crisis, both because of its geostrategic position and its historic links with the eu. in this context, increased cooperation with turkey is not only desirable but also imperative. the turkish-european agenda adopted in november was a step in the right direction, providing significant financial aid to turkey to improve the humanitarian conditions of the 3 million refugees there. the result of the summit on 8 march, however, can only be condemned. instead of promoting responsibility-sharing, it promotes the disempowerment of the eu through the subcontracting of asylum rights. the proposals which follow from it are a concession to national egotism and a victory for the 'fortress europe' model at the expense of a europe of solidarity and humanism. in addition, the compliance with international law of the 'one outside, one inside' measure applied to the syrians is highly questionable. unable to solve the refugee crisis, the eu decided to find someone to solve it, buying turkey's agreement to reopen the accession negotiations and turning a blind eye to the recent authoritarian drift.
in writing. other the heads of state agreed on monday to decide on something concrete next week and to speed up the implementation of the agreement signed with turkey in november. looking at the broad lines announced, more is promised in return for more, and so far the member states have not done anything. the substance of the agreement will be based essentially on two pillars: more money and the so-called resettlement (something similar to the relocation mechanism, but with turkey). once again, the heads of state have made promises to a third state which they cannot keep to themselves. there is a growing sense that it is really easy to outsource. it seems easier to promise money to someone who claims to be able to do what we are not able to do. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the reality calls for concrete solutions, not inconsequential ideals. but we should be concerned that, faced with an existential crisis, europe chooses to ignore the very thing that gave it birth: values.
‒ in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, the consultative group met to examine the proposal referred to in the previous paragraph, submitted by the commission. the analysis carried out has thus allowed the consensus to be reached that the proposal in question is in fact a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the report endorses the commission's codification of directive 1999/32/ec on this subject. the commission proposal is based on a number of amendments which do little to change the commission's proposal, which in turn merely makes formal changes to the nomenclature and to its link with other documents. the directive essentially aims to control the amount of sulphur used by ships in their fuels, taking into account the damage they cause to the environment, by means of a control carried out during navigation but also when they are at berth. it proposes fuel alternatives, sets the percentages of sulphur in fuels, and proposes dissuasive, proportionate and effective penalties for vessels using this compound in their fuels. it also defines the maximum content of such fuels which may be used in the exclusive economic zones of the member states. in the case of this report, we are dealing with a codification only, i.e. it is an eminently technical matter which has not touched upon the substance of the legislative acts. in any event, we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. the eu's air quality targets are still not met. air pollution is one of the main environmental concerns facing citizens. the eu should be aware of the significant negative effects on public health caused by the high sulphur content of certain liquid fuels.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels which is used to codify existing texts, without substantial amendments.
‒ the report endorses the commission's codification of directive 1999/32/ec on this subject. the commission proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is not a new one. the directive essentially aims to control the amount of sulphur used by ships in their fuels for the damage they cause to the environment, by monitoring it during navigation but also when they are at berth. it proposes fuel alternatives, sets the percentages of sulphur in fuels, and proposes dissuasive, proportionate and effective penalties for vessels using this compound in their fuels. it also defines the maximum content of such fuels which may be used in the eezs of the member states. we voted in favour.
‒ this directive aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment. to that end, the report sets out, for example, the maximum permitted sulphur content for heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel oil used in the union. the report also states that the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid petroleum fuels should be achieved by imposing limits on the sulphur content of these fuels as a condition for their use in the territory, territorial seas, exclusive economic zones and pollution control zones of the member states. i welcome the presentation of this report and voted in favour of it because without the measures introduced in it, emissions from shipping could very soon exceed emissions from all land-based sources combined.
‒ it is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, and that approval is therefore warranted.
‒ simplifying and clarifying european union law is a central objective of the eu. making it more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand will open up new opportunities for them and enable them to benefit from the specific rights conferred on them. the scattered nature of numerous provisions, which have been amended on several occasions, often substantially (which means that both the original act and the acts amending it must be read), means that, for reasons of legal clarity and transparency, the rules must be codified. i support the ferrara report which codifies council regulation 953/2003 to prevent the diversion of certain medicines essential for the eu and which does not cause substantial changes to the existing texts, so that the new regulation replaces the various acts incorporated in it.
‒ in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, the consultative group met to examine the proposal referred to above, submitted by the commission. the analysis carried out has thus allowed the consensus to conclude that the proposal in question is in fact a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the report supports a codification of regulation 953/2003/eec of 26 may 2003. the commission simply codifies the existing texts without making any substantive changes to the text as a whole, essentially changing the nomenclature and the link with other documents. this is a highly technical report. as regards substance, the regulation deals with the diversion of essential medicines to the european union and the implementation of the necessary controls. essential medicines are those which are needed for certain serious diseases, such as aids and tuberculosis, and which cannot be procured by countries with the most severe economic difficulties. for this reason, differentiated prices for these medicines are established for the least developed countries. the regulation aims to put in place controls, fines and penalties to prevent countries or the pharmaceutical industry from taking advantage of this price differentiation by reselling them and making a profit on the exchange. among other measures, it allows seized medicines to be used for humanitarian aid to countries in need. it also provides for penalties to be imposed on the importer or any other person responsible for the attempted illegal import. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union. the rules which have been subject to frequent amendments need to be codified, and simplification and clarification of union law is essential for reasons of legal certainty.
‒ given the urgent need for many of the poorest developing countries to have access to essential medicines for the treatment of communicable diseases at affordable prices, these countries are over-dependent on imported medicines. it is crucial to introduce price differentiation between developed countries' markets and the markets of poorer developing countries in order to ensure that these countries have access to essential medicines at very low prices. there are now legislative and regulatory instruments in most developed countries to prevent the importation of pharmaceutical products in certain circumstances. however, there is a risk that these mechanisms will be insufficient in the face of the possible economic interest in diverting these products to higher priced markets. it is essential to establish a mechanism for the identification of the products, countries and diseases covered by this regulation, which aims to prevent the importation into the union of products with differentiated prices. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the fact that manufacturers are using a different presentation of products to make them easily identifiable, and i think it is essential to review the lists of diseases and countries of destination covered by the regulation.
the report supports a codification of regulation 953/2003/eec of 26 may 2003. the commission simply codifies the existing texts without making any substantive changes to the text in general, mainly changes to the nomenclature and to its link with other documents. the regulation addresses the diversion of essential medicines to the european union and the implementation of the necessary controls. essential medicines are those needed for certain serious diseases, such as aids and tuberculosis, and which cannot be procured by countries with the most economic difficulties. for this reason, differentiated prices for these medicines are established for the least developed countries. the regulation aims to put in place controls, fines and sanctions mechanisms to prevent countries or the pharmaceutical industry from taking advantage of this price differentiation by reselling them and generating a profit in this exchange. among other measures, it allows seized medicines to be used for humanitarian aid to countries in need. it also provides for penalties to be imposed on the importer or any other person responsible for the attempted illegal import. we voted in favour.
‒ the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the proposal in question is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. the report, which i voted in favour of, therefore approves its position at first reading and endorses the commission's proposal, as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
‒ it is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, and that approval is therefore warranted.
‒ the agreement, on which the european parliament was consulted, updates another concluded between the eu and andorra in 2004, which ensured that the principality would apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the aim is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the new agreement will enable the tax administrations of the member states and andorra to correctly identify the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, to assess the likelihood of tax evasion and to dispense with unnecessary additional enquiries.
‒ this agreement follows similar agreements signed earlier, which we also voted in favour of. the signed agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account and interest information, which aims, among other things, to improve international tax cooperation, represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, andorra and the eu will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide the sources of his non-taxed financial income. the agreement aims to ensure that andorra applies measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and the oecd. we recognise the positive (albeit limited) aspects that can result from this.
‒ the agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is essential to improve tax cooperation in the field of tax fraud and tax evasion. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ the european union and the principality of andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts on 12 february 2016 with a view to improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the agreement marks a major step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement, which ensured that the principality of andorra applies measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu savings directive. the proposed amendment to the agreement provides that eu member states and andorra will, as of 2018, automatically exchange information collected as of 1 january 2017 on financial accounts held in their territories by residents of the other party. the purpose of this exchange is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ this agreement is a follow-up to similar agreements signed earlier, which we also voted in favour of. the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account and interest information aims, among other things, to improve international tax cooperation and represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, andorra and the eu will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide the sources of his non-taxed financial income. the agreement aims to ensure that andorra applies measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and the oecd. although limited, we recognize the positive aspects that can result.
‒ on 12 february 2016, the european union and the principality of andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations an important step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. this report, which i approve, aims to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to the eu legal framework updated in december 2014. the commission notes that the provisions of the 2014 oecd global standard do not allow the member states to impose a tax on the income of residents of andorra. the other provisions of the agreement are intended to ensure that the exchange of information covers not only income, namely interest and dividends, but also account balances and the proceeds of the sale of financial assets. under this new agreement, member states' and andorra's tax administrations will now be able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned; apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations; assess the likelihood of tax evasion occurring and dispense with unnecessary additional enquiries.
‒ this is an agreement aimed at the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts to combat tax fraud and evasion. it is a document that is in line with the need for greater transparency in eu tax matters in its relations with third countries.
‒ the agreement signed this year on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at improving international tax cooperation, represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. the new agreement will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territory by residents of each country, starting in 2018, for information collected as of 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide income-generating capital or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that andorra applies the recently strengthened measures in the eu legal framework in december 2014 (amending the administrative cooperation directive, 'dac 2') and complies with the 2014 oecd standards for the automatic exchange of information.
‒ the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) has proposed the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term. the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr fausto parente, at which he made an initial statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee, without the commission raising any problems. i therefore agree to the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the fundamental issue of financial speculation by keeping intact the mechanisms that underlie and enable it by not putting a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and not instituting the separation of commercial and investment banking. as is clear now and as will tend to become clearer in the future, the creation of these european authorities was not worth much. we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. our vote on the appointment of the executive director of the authority in question reflects this principled position.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the proposed appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ whereas the term of office of the current executive director of the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) expires on 31 march 2016, whereas the board of supervisors of eiopa, following a call for tenders, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term of office, and whereas the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with fausto parente on 23 february 2016, at which he made an initial statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee, i approve the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the fundamental issue of financial speculation by keeping intact the mechanisms that underlie and enable it by not putting a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and not instituting the separation of commercial and investment banking. as is clear now and as will tend to become clearer in the future, the creation of these european authorities has been of little use. we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. our vote on the appointment of the executive director of the authority in question reflects this principled position.
in writing. ‒ this report, which has earned my vote in favour, indicates the appointment of mr fausto parente as eiopa's executive director, after the end of the current director's term of office on 31 march 2016. the appointment of fausto parente for a five-year term was proposed following a call for tenders on 28 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa ends on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, the board of supervisors of eiopa, following a call for tenders, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. the committee on economic and monetary affairs heard mr fausto parente and parliament approved his appointment.
‒ eiopa is part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons we opposed the institution of this system and its authorities. we therefore abstain on the appointment of the executive director of the authority in question.
‒ the free movement of european citizens, which has its first pillar in schengen, is also translated into an area of freedom, security and justice. among these three dimensions, the case for justice means judicial cooperation and, as this report emphasizes, guaranteeing a common denominator of guarantees and rights for all european citizens. it is for this reason that the procedural rights roadmap has been developed, but also why this directive has now been adopted for the procedural guarantees for minors - normally subject to a special regime in criminal proceedings. the directive applies to all criminal proceedings and ensures the harmonisation of numerous concepts and safeguards which were not consensual in the traditions of the various member states. the definition of a child as anyone under the age of 18, access to a lawyer and legal aid, as well as special safeguards in medical examinations and interrogations, are of particular importance. i cannot therefore fail to welcome and to note that in certain areas it is still quite clear that there can be no security without justice.
‒ the european commission estimates that more than one million minors are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu every year, representing 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings in the eu. investigations at european level show that the rights of minors at the various stages of the procedure are not adequately guaranteed within the union and that there are many cases of member states being condemned by the european court of human rights. at present, there are only six member states with specialised juvenile prosecution bodies and nine countries without specialised courts. in some countries, the assistance of a lawyer is not guaranteed; in others, it is possible only in court and not in police stations; in other cases, the decision is taken by the competent court. it is in this context that the proposal for a directive is to be introduced, which aims to define a narrow but organic range of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, with a structured body of 'minimum standards' which are interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings.
‒ the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings is part of the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, adopted by the council on 30 november 2009. it is in line with other initiatives, including the guidelines of the committee of ministers of the council of europe on child-friendly justice. it is estimated that more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, representing 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings. it is in this context that the proposal for a directive is to be introduced, which aims to define a set of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, based on a structured body of 'minimum' rules, which are interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings. the following are particularly important: the inalienable right to be assisted by a lawyer; the right to individual assessment; the possibility for the child to participate in the proceedings; the inclusion of specific mandatory training for judges, police and prison authorities, lawyers and other individuals working with children; provisions on deprivation of liberty. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. having regard to article 82 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, this concerns the establishment of specific minimum standards with regard to the procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, taking into account the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings, and promoting the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the aim of the directive is to ensure that minors have the capacity to understand and follow the procedure, exercising their right to a fair trial and preventing reoffending.
‒ it is estimated that more than one million minors are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, representing 12% of those involved in criminal proceedings. in addition to these data, there are other alarming factors, such as the disparity between member states in the treatment of minors subject to criminal proceedings. at present, according to studies carried out at european level, the rights of minors at the various stages of criminal proceedings are not adequately guaranteed within the union and there are many cases of member states being condemned by the european court of human rights. i support, as do the conclusions of the stockholm programme, the need to ensure, through common minimum rules, the effective and sufficiently uniform enjoyment of the right to a fair trial at all stages of the proceedings by persons under the age of 18. i would stress as essential, and safeguarded in the proposal, the right to be assisted by a lawyer, the right to individual assessment, the participation of the minor in the proceedings, the inclusion of mandatory specific training for those working with minors and the provisions on deprivation of liberty, on the basis of which the application of preventive detention should be established only as a last resort.
‒ the stockholm programme emphasised the importance and need to ensure, through minimum rules, the effective enjoyment of the right to a fair trial during all stages of the criminal proceedings. this directive is part of a set of measures already adopted which aim to promote the rights of minors. it is estimated that more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, corresponding to 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings. the commission proposal for a directive aims to define a set of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in a structured body of 'minimum' standards. among others, these include the inalienable right to free legal aid and to be assisted by a lawyer; the right to an individual assessment; the interrogation procedure; the possibility of the minor's participation in the proceedings; the inclusion of specific training which is mandatory for all those working with minors; provisions on deprivation of liberty and ensuring that minors are detained separately from adults. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ at present, there are only six member states (belgium, the czech republic, greece, italy, luxembourg and the slovak republic) with specialised juvenile prosecution bodies, and nine countries do not even have specialised courts. only 12 member states provide for specific mandatory training for judges and lawyers working with minors and in some countries the assistance of a lawyer is not guaranteed; in others, it is possible only in court and not in police stations; in other cases, the decision is taken by the competent court. this is why today a significant number of minors in the eu do not have a basic right to be assisted by a lawyer. it is in this context that the commission's proposal for a directive is to be seen, which aims to define a narrow but organic range of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or subject to european arrest warrant proceedings), with a structured body of 'minimum standards', which are interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ the european commission estimates that more than one million minors are subject to criminal proceedings in the european union every year, representing 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings in the territory. there are many differences between member states in the treatment of minors subject to criminal proceedings. there are specialised juvenile prosecution bodies in only six member states (belgium, the czech republic, greece, italy, luxembourg and the slovak republic) and in nine countries there are no specialised courts at all. only 12 member states provide for specific mandatory training for judges and lawyers working with minors. a significant number of minors in the eu have not been recognised as having a basic right to be assisted by a lawyer. this proposal aims to define a narrow but organic range of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, with a structured body of 'minimum' rules, which are interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings.
‒ the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is part of the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings and is in line with the eu programme on the rights of minors which aims to promote the rights of minors in the light of other instruments, including in particular the guidelines of the committee of ministers of the council of europe on child-friendly justice, taking into account that such instruments are not binding under union law and therefore the guarantees provided for therein are not fully and uniformly applied in the member states. it is estimated that more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, corresponding to 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings. it is in this context that the commission's proposal for a directive aims to define a set of rights for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or subject to european arrest warrant proceedings), with a structured body of 'minimum standards', which are interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings.
‒ the general budget of the european union is a key instrument for dealing with the recent crises and responding to needs that were not foreseen during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. i share the view that the eu budget, as an investment budget, brings added value by stimulating growth, competitiveness and job creation and should not be seen as a burden by member states who consider their contribution as an adjustment variable subject to macroeconomic conditions. as in the past, i reiterate the need to reform the eu's own resources system, since it is impossible to demand more europe and more union intervention when the budgetary cake represents less than 1% of european gdp. the 2017 budget will be affected by the challenges of migration and internal and external security and therefore, in its preparation, particular attention should be paid to these emerging phenomena, while not neglecting concerns about unemployment, socio-economic disparities, support for smes and the revitalisation of the internal market.
‒ this report contains the european parliament's position on the guidelines to guide the preparation of the eu budget for 2017. unsurprisingly, it is a report which does not advocate profound differences from what the budgetary priorities have been in previous years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as usual, we took an active part in the debate on budgetary priorities, proposing a number of amendments to the report. examples include: advocating substantial budgetary strengthening, especially of the components dedicated to economic and social cohesion, with the creation of an investment plan that mobilises at least 2% of eu gdp annually over the next ten years; advocating cuts in military spending and associated with eu external interventionism; advocating measures to combat poverty, inequalities and social exclusion as well as unemployment; creating specific support programmes for countries, such as portugal, which are affected by the troika and face greater difficulties; creating support programmes for countries opting for a negotiated exit from the euro which, among other aspects, provide for adequate compensation for the damage caused by joining and remaining in the single currency. these are changes that point to an alternative path to the current disaster trajectory. unfortunately, they were rejected.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. the union budget is a key instrument for responding to recent crises and needs that have not been addressed in previous instruments. with timid growth, the eu is growing below its growth potential. better and more options that invest and promote employment growth in a sustainable and responsible way are essential.
‒ the report advances the european parliament's position on the guidelines to guide the preparation of the eu budget for 2017. as might be expected, it does not advocate major differences from what the budgetary priorities have been in previous years. we believe that a major change in the priorities set is necessary. we therefore took an active part in the debate on budgetary priorities, putting forward several amendments to the report, such as: advocating substantial budgetary strengthening, in particular the components dedicated to economic and social cohesion, with the creation of an investment plan that mobilises at least 2% of eu gdp annually over the next ten years; advocating cuts in military expenditure and associated eu external interventionism; advocating measures to combat poverty, inequalities and social exclusion as well as unemployment; creating specific support programmes for countries, such as portugal, which are affected by troika intervention and are facing greater difficulties; creating support programmes for countries opting for a negotiated exit from the euro which, among other things, provide for adequate compensation for the damage caused by entry and stay in the single currency. the amendments were unfortunately rejected, and they represent a necessary break with existing policies. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which sets out the guidelines for the 2017 budget, which should focus on economic growth and job creation in the context of a fragile economic recovery threatened by the situation in emerging world markets and current geopolitical tensions. i welcome this report because it states that the budget should be drawn up on the basis of economic forecasts and in line with the european semester for economic policy coordination. i also believe that the budget must be revised to ensure that the eu's policies to deal with the refugee crisis are effectively financed, so that a european solution can be found to overcome a situation which is regarded as emerging, but also the serious crisis affecting european agriculture, especially the milk sector. to this end, i stress the importance of the full implementation of the joint declarations on payments agreed between parliament, the council and the commission in 2015 and 2016. finally, i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the reform of the eu's own resources system, established under the agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, whose mid-term review will coincide with the 2017 budget, is necessary.
‒ we need a budget for 2017 that is sufficiently strong and progressive and that gives us the tools to respond appropriately to the multiple challenges facing the union. we need to ensure that we have the resources and the flexibility to react to complex and constantly changing situations, while ensuring that the budget allows us to show solidarity with countries that are facing the brunt of the crisis. the european parliament will need to be prepared to mobilise funds to address the various crises it faces that were not necessarily foreseen during the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff), such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the serious challenges and emergencies resulting from the migration and refugee crisis, geopolitical tensions in europe's neighbourhood and the slow pace of the eu's economic recovery and investment.
‒ this is a report that does not advocate profound differences from what the budgetary priorities have been in previous years. with these profound changes we can only vote against. as usual, we took an active part in the debate on budgetary priorities, proposing various amendments to the report. examples include: advocating substantial budgetary strengthening, especially of the components dedicated to economic and social cohesion, with the creation of an investment plan that mobilises at least 2% of eu gdp annually over the next ten years; advocating cuts in military spending and associated with eu external interventionism; advocating measures to combat poverty, inequalities and social exclusion as well as unemployment; creating specific support programmes for countries, such as portugal, which are affected by the troika and face greater difficulties; creating support programmes for countries opting for a negotiated exit from the euro which, among other aspects, provide for adequate compensation for the losses caused by joining and remaining in the single currency. these are amendments that point to an alternative path to the current disaster trajectory. unfortunately, they were rejected.
‒ i voted in favour of the geier report because i believe that parliament's proposal mobilises the means available to deal with the crises europe is facing today. not only the humanitarian refugee and migration crisis, but also the economic crisis, with proposals such as the youth employment initiative, which is a key contribution to the union's priority objective of growth and jobs, including young migrants arriving in the eu. the budget of the european union, while admittedly insufficient, is one of the key resources to cope with the recent crises, while responding to needs that had not necessarily been foreseen during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
‒ the institutional architecture of the european union is complex, reflecting to a large extent the sui generis nature of this entity. this is reflected in the relationship between the three institutions of the legislative triangle: the commission, parliament and council. this interinstitutional agreement is part of the 'better regulation' package launched by the commission in 2015 and focuses in particular on the legislative procedure, the relationship between the institutions and legislation. at the legislative level, the agreement aims to make the whole process more transparent and flexible, and to ensure loyal cooperation between the institutions, in particular by guaranteeing parliament's role as co-legislator. it also aims to fulfil an idea championed by the epp and, in particular, by the candidate - now president - juncker: that the union should be big in big things and small in small things. in other words, the level of power should always be as close as possible to the decision-making electorate and, on the other hand, the regulatory impetus should not be an unnecessary burden for citizens and businesses. i therefore support this agreement.
‒ parliament has repeatedly called for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to be renegotiated to take account of the new legislative framework created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate current good practice and update that agreement in line with the 'better lawmaking' agenda. the conference of presidents approved by a majority the provisional agreement reached by the negotiators on the text of a new interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking (the 'new iia'). i therefore welcome the agreement reached between the institutions, which is a good basis for establishing and developing a new, more open and transparent relationship between the institutions with the aim of better lawmaking in the interests of the citizens of the union.
‒ the report endorses the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the european commission and the council on better law-making. it's a negative agreement for several orders of reason. we'll highlight three. first, the stated objective conceals the interests it is intended to serve. the so-called 'competitiveness' of firms is now the first and overriding criterion in determining the appropriateness and content of eu legislation. it is not the interests of smes that are being defended. but those of big business, of big economic groups, of big powers. even more than before. social and environmental criteria, if anything (a little) could still contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of workers and peoples, are now relegated to an even more secondary plane. secondly, this agreement represents new and more serious limitations on the democratic nature of the legislative and decision-making process. the door is open to greater concentration of power in the european commission and to limiting the capacity of co-legislators, especially members, to intervene. thirdly, the declarations of good faith on 'transparency' result in a handful of nothing. in the shadows, they command the powers that be. it is for them that we want to "legislate better".
‒ better regulation means legislative simplification, with the aim of promoting legal certainty and security. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement, which is essential for the functioning of a sometimes too complex legislative machinery.
‒ parliament welcomed the opening of negotiations for a new interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking and set out a number of priorities, notably as regards the quality of the commission's legislative wording, multiannual and annual programming and strengthening the impact assessment of draft legislation. i voted in favour of this report mainly because i believe it is essential that the three institutions recognise their joint responsibility to provide the union with high-quality legislation and to ensure that this legislation is focused on the areas where it can bring the greatest added value to european citizens. i also think it is important that more effective legislation is adopted to solve the daily problems of citizens, and the eu should focus on specific areas that improve the quality of life of its citizens and businesses.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. first, the stated objective conceals the interests it purports to serve. the so-called 'competitiveness' of firms is now the first and overriding criterion in determining the appropriateness and content of eu legislation. it is the interests of big capital, of the big economic groups and of the big powers, not the interests of smes, that are being defended. any social and environmental criteria which could have contributed even a little to the improvement of the living conditions of workers and peoples are now being secondary. the second reason concerns the new and more serious limitations on the democratic nature of the legislative and decision-making process which the agreement promotes. the concentration of power in the european commission is foreseen, restricting the capacity of co-legislators, in particular meps, to intervene. thirdly, the declarations of good faith on 'transparency' result in a handful of nothing. we voted against it.
‒ this report concerns the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement (new ipa) between parliament, the council and the commission on better lawmaking, which highlights the importance of the provisions of the new ipa on better lawmaking tools such as impact assessments and consultations with citizens and stakeholders. in my view, this will contribute to an informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making process and to the proper application of the legislation. i welcome this report as it considers the 'annual burden analysis' provided for in the iia as a tool to identify and monitor, in a clear and transparent manner, the results of the union's efforts to avoid and reduce overregulation and administrative burdens. while i recognize that the measures agreed to improve the exchange of views and information between parliament and the council as legislators are a step forward, i agree that they should be further developed. in view of the above, and also because i believe that the new iia should be implemented seriously and that the commitments and deadlines laid down should be respected, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the european parliament, the council and the commission are committed to sincere and transparent cooperation throughout the legislative process. the three institutions recognise their joint responsibility to provide the union with high-quality legislation and to ensure that such legislation focuses on areas where it can bring the greatest added value to european citizens; that it is as efficient and effective as possible in achieving the union's common policy objectives; that it is as simple and clear as possible and avoids excessive regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises; and is designed to facilitate its transposition and practical application and to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union economy.
‒ this stated objective unfortunately conceals the interests it is intended to serve. the so-called 'competitiveness' of firms is now the first and overriding criterion in determining the appropriateness and content of eu legislation. it is not the interests of smes that are to be defended, but those of big capital and the big economic groups of the big powers, and with even greater zeal than before. social and environmental criteria are now relegated to an even more secondary plane. the agreement also places new and more severe restrictions on the democratic nature of the legislative and decision-making process. the door is now open to greater concentration of power in the european commission and to limiting the power of intervention of the co-legislators, especially the members. finally, the declarations of goodwill about 'transparency' result in a handful of nothing. in the shadows, they send the powers that be.
‒ i voted in favour of the hübner report because i believe that this agreement is a good basis for establishing and developing a new relationship between the european institutions, one that is more open and transparent, with the aim of better lawmaking in the interests of the citizens of the european union. the agreement aims to provide the european union with high-quality legislation and to focus legislation on those areas where it can bring the greatest added value to society, avoiding excessive regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. the aim is also to design legislation in such a way as to facilitate its transposition and practical application and to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union's economy. i would stress that the socialist group has fought to safeguard the integrity of the agreements between the social partners, including their exclusion from impact assessment studies.
in writing. ‒ an estimated 700 000 people die prematurely in the eu each year as a result of smoking. in addition to the health damage, illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes, causes the eu and its member states to lose more than eur 10 billion in revenue per year, and undermines the results of tobacco control policies by increasing access to tobacco products, especially for young people and low-income groups. member states and the eu have concluded agreements in which companies have collectively committed to pay $2.15 billion to the eu and signatory states to combat the illegal trade in cigarettes. the effects of these agreements are limited. as the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) was coming to an end, it became known that secret and informal negotiations were taking place between the european commission and the tobacco industry. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to suspend any further contacts with pmi or other tobacco manufacturers with a view to a possible extension of the tobacco agreements and to renounce other such agreements. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution. the commission must make greater efforts to combat counterfeiting and smuggling of tobacco at european and international level. however, in this resolution i believe that the dangers of tobacco to public health have been underestimated or misrepresented.
in writing. ‒ every year, seven hundred thousand people die prematurely as a result of the health effects of smoking this is in addition to the loss of revenue of over eur 10 billion per year in the eu due to the illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes. this situation jeopardises the outcomes of tobacco control policies by increasing access to tobacco products, especially for young people and low-income groups. the large number of agreements concluded by the member states and the eu with the tobacco industry to combat the illegal trade in cigarettes have had little impact. as the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) was coming to an end, it became known that secret and informal negotiations were taking place between the european commission and the tobacco industry. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to suspend any further contacts with pmi or other tobacco manufacturers with a view to a possible extension of the tobacco agreements and to renounce other such agreements. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which deals with the proposal of the commission of 4 may 2015 on behalf of the european union for the ratification of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products adopted in connection with the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation. the commission also adopted an opinion on the agreement between philip morris international (pmi) and its subsidiaries, the commission and 10 member states to combat smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco. although it was an innovative instrument in 2004, i agree that the agreement with pmi is outdated for several reasons, including the fact that smuggling is an international problem, whereas the agreement applies only to the eu. furthermore, i consider that all the elements covered by the pmi agreement are now covered by the new legal framework, and that the agreement does not include the relevant features of the current illicit tobacco trade. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because i agree that the commission should not renew, extend or renegotiate the agreement with pmi.
in writing. ‒ there are 4 such agreements between the eu, member states and 4 tobacco companies. the philip morris contract is the first to expire (in july) and it was necessary to consider the possibility of renewal. all these agreements are aimed at combating illicit trade in tobacco and involve the cooperation of the companies. the socialist group in the european parliament has expressed its opposition to the extension of the agreement with philip morris, believing that although it has been useful in combating fraud, changes in the market (the emergence of white-label products) and in the regulation governing this trade (the tobacco products directive) have made it no longer the best way to continue the fight against illicit tobacco. parliament confirmed the socialist group's position.
‒ the illicit tobacco trade represents a loss of more than eur 10 billion for the eu and its member states, in addition to the increased health risks related to the presence of unauthorised substances and the impact on producers' incomes. over the years, cooperation agreements have been concluded with four of the world's leading cigarette manufacturers with the aim of combating illicit tobacco trade in the eu. the eu's agreement with the tobacco manufacturer philip morris international (pmi) will expire in july 2016 and a decision on its renewal is to be taken. i voted not to renew the agreement with pmi tobacco because it is insufficient to address the current characteristics of the illicit tobacco trade and because the desirable legal framework is defined in the legal framework of directive 2014/40/eu. the commission was required to develop additional measures for the tracking and tracing of pmi tobacco and to allow for legal action against unlawful seizures of pmi products until all provisions of the directive are fully in force, in order to avoid a regulatory gap between the expiry of the agreement with pmi and the entry into force of the directive.
‒ 700 000 eu citizens die prematurely every year as a result of smoking. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes, causes the eu and its member states to lose more than eur 10 billion in revenue each year and, in addition to undermining tobacco control policies, increases access to tobacco products, especially for young people and low-income groups. member states and the eu have concluded agreements in which companies have collectively committed to pay a total of usd 2.15 billion to the eu and signatory states to combat the illegal trade in cigarettes, although no positive public health effects have been seen to date from these agreements. in the light of the termination of the agreement with philip morris international, it became known that secret and informal negotiations between the commission and the tobacco industry were taking place, which were contrary to the objectives of transparency. the resolution adopted today therefore calls on the commission and the council to suspend any further contacts with pmi or other tobacco manufacturers on the possible extension of tobacco agreements and to completely renounce any further such agreements.
‒ i voted against the extension of the agreement with philip morris international, which was aimed at combating fraud and smuggling of branded cigarettes. i believe that while the agreement was useful as an innovative tool to combat illicit tobacco trade when it was negotiated, today the markets and the international regulatory framework have undergone significant changes. the agreement does not address important features of the current illicit tobacco trade, namely the high percentage of unbranded cigarettes. therefore, and as it has been submitted to the european parliament, i believe that the agreement should not be renewed, extended or renegotiated. the commission is also urged to take immediate action to ensure full transposition of the tobacco products directive in all member states and to present an action plan setting out further measures to tackle the problem of unbranded cigarettes as soon as possible.
mr president, it is a great pleasure to receive the prime minister here at the european parliament. prime minister, you are coming with a strong pro-european voice, building on the swedish experience. sweden does, of course, have several problems, but it remains one of the best examples to be followed in the european union as a whole. first of all, when it comes to democracy, as you have just mentioned, you have high standards of representative democracy in sweden. secondly, sweden remains one of the best examples of how we can push for sustainable development combining the economic, social and environmental dimensions while delivering a stronger recovery with good jobs. finally, sweden remains a good example of a high degree of engagement with international responsibilities. i know that you are very committed to working for a global new deal. of course, in spite of the problems, sweden remains a very important positive example as to how to integrate the refugees. well let me say that i recently went again to sweden to get some inspiration and i would like to tell the house what i saw. sweden is managing a very big flow of refugees. firstly, i saw refugees being received decently at the border; secondly, i saw them being distributed across the country in many municipalities, where they could find decent housing and access to basic social services. then i saw very well—organised programmes for retraining and integrating refugees into the labour market. so that was the reality which i saw in sweden. what i conclude from this is that these are very simple and nonetheless very humane things to do, and they can be done – as sweden is proving – and should be done throughout europe.
the systematic violation of human rights in eritrea, exacerbated by the policy of indefinite military recruitment that maintains the slave regime, leads to the flight of 500 eritreans a month to europe, totalling already 400,000 refugees, or about 9% of the population. there is no rule of law in eritrea, no functioning legislature, no national budget, no independent press and no government organizations working in the country since 2001. the european union is still prepared to agree a €200 million development aid plan with the isaias afewerki dictatorship to stem the flow of refugees. how can the commission believe that this plan will ever actually improve the living conditions of the oppressed eritrean people? what assurances does the commission give that this aid, approved under the european development fund and against the negative opinion of the european parliament, and without democratic scrutiny because it does not exist under that fund, will not be used for other purposes such as the purchase of arms, destabilisation of the region and further repression of the people of eritrea. the commission must at least demand a democratic reform plan and also ensure that monitoring of projects financed by the union is strictly controlled by independent bodies and that access is given to non-governmental organisations and also to un rapporteurs and special representatives.
there are positive aspects to this regulation. ensuring the production of safe, effective and affordable veterinary medicines is an important objective for our producers. the introduction of the question of generics, antimicrobial resistance or small markets are important elements in the right direction. we believe, however, that the same could go further, were it not for the pressure of multinational companies which want to extend their privileges to the maximum, capturing monopoly rents, if possible, for all eternity. we could have gone further by extending the centralised method, which in our view is the only method which safeguards the interests of the smaller countries and prevents multinationals from selling their products only in the most profitable markets. let us be clear, however. the great concern about the safety and proper use of veterinary medicines is not solved by this regulation alone, it is solved by tackling the problem at its root, which lies in a common agricultural policy, essentially productivist, which promotes intensive monoculture and destroys small and mediumsized family farming in europe.
member of the commission.– mr president, mr la via, the commission fully shares parliament’s concern on zika and we agree that we need to have a forceful response to this outbreak. the zika virus is a model example of the threats that we face in today’s globalised world. suddenly it made its way around the world and reached the americas and the caribbean. and as always when a virus is introduced in a new area we can see some unexpected symptoms and effects. while the uncomplicated zika infection causes only mild symptoms, this virus seems able to infect unborn children in utero, potentially causing microcephaly. in the light of this, the world health organization has rightly declared a public health emergency of international concern and in the european union we have mobilised our structures of cooperation with the member states. the epidemic has arrived in member states’ overseas territories; in continental european union we so far only have cases in travellers returning from the affected areas. so that is why the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has developed information for travellers and for eu residents in the affected areas, and that i know is one of the points for action mentioned in your resolution. we have also shaped advice to health authorities to help member states increase awareness amongst clinicians, something else that your resolution stresses. it is likely that more infections will occur in europe. we must be prepared for local transmission of zika as temperatures rise, building on our experience in controlling the spread of mosquitoes, which is being brought together by the ecdc. we are already gathering knowledge from countries with experience in mosquito control, as you rightly call for. we are ready to address zika by using tried and tested systems under our legislation on serious cross-border health threats, which gives us the mandate to coordinate the response to a threat together with member states. as regards surveillance of the epidemic, we are on track and we are working with member states to reinforce laboratory capabilities for early detection and diagnosis based on the ecdc risk assessments. it is the health security committee which is the structure we have in place for risk management to cross-border threats. this committee has so far met three times to review the zika situation and we are constantly exchanging information on zika through our early warning and response system. as regards another important point you raised, the disinfection of ships and airplanes, we have developed specific advice to member states on this, again based on ecdc risk assessments. we share your concern at the fact that there are no vaccines or medicines to protect people from the zika virus or to treat them, and that is why we are stepping up our efforts in this area. the european medicines agency has established a task force of experts to advise on scientific and regulatory matters related to the development of medicines against the virus. the agency will also contact companies planning to work on vaccines and offer advice. we are making available an additional eur 10 million of emergency research funding for zika-related research. these are only the first steps in our response. we will continue to support the eu member states and the affected regions in close cooperation with the world health organization and today’s debate and parliament’s motion for a resolution come, i think, at the right moment to focus attention on the urgency of the situation. this is particularly true as in the coming spring and summer mosquitos may pose a danger for the introduction of the virus in europe, so we need effective vector control measures. let me assure you that the commission is ready to address all aspects of the zika virus challenge and is ready to deploy all available instruments and means to this end.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been following with great concern the news of the zika virus outbreak, which has spread rapidly in different countries, especially in latin america, and which could spread to the european continent and become a true global health emergency. according to the world health organization, this virus could affect about four million people in the americas alone in 2016. news of this outbreak is becoming increasingly alarming, and there is strong suspicion that this virus may cause congenital malformations and neurological syndromes. at this stage, there are already cases of travellers who have been infected with zika virus in third countries and diagnosed after returning to europe. fortunately for all of us, the disease has not yet spread to the european continent. however, with spring and summer, the risk of this spread in europe will necessarily become greater. in countries where the aedes aegypti mosquito is present, such as portugal - more specifically in the outermost region of madeira - there may be a serious risk of zika virus spread. lessons learned from the ebola outbreak indicate that we need to act more quickly and effectively in global health emergencies. as commissioner hill said, the member states must and can collaborate scientifically and operationally with each other, including with the latin american countries most affected by the virus. it is to establish the best measures for prevention, control, diagnosis and possible treatments against the disease, as well as to share information on research being carried out. it is essential that this research includes possible links between the virus and congenital malformations and neurological syndromes. however, possible alternative causes of these malformations should also be considered and no hypothesis should be excluded before due scientific verification and investigation. i am referring in particular to the possibility of a causal link between the detected cases of microcephaly and the addition of the larvicide pyriproxifen to drinking water. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the community's citizens is protected.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, banking union is in fact the only complete project that the eurozone has thought of in response to the 2008 crisis. the four chairmen's report, the commission blueprint, the thyssen report, all in 2012, launched banking union and the purpose was renewed in 2015 in the five chairmen's report. the banking union is absolutely essential to the stability of the single currency and the european financial system and it is this awareness that justifies a fundamental involvement of this parliament. the so-called common rule book, the equal rules, the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism have been completed with extraordinary success ahead of schedule. but let's be clear. this is an original project, it's a high-risk project, it needs to be refined in its details and it depends on mutual trust. there are only two systems that we know of that are similar, the fdic in the united states and the german system. both are based, as a starting point, on deposit insurance as an essential condition for financial stability. if we do not quickly implement the stabilizing components of the banking union, in particular the third pillar, the common guarantee of deposits, at least in the very diluted version of edis, but which we thank, but also the revision of the ism, the establishment of a backstop and a common credit line, we will run the serious risk of dismantling what we have already built, because in an incomplete architecture the existing pillars become dangerous factors of imbalance and not of stabilization. a well-baked cake is a delight, but a half-baked cake is an indigestible and even dangerous meal. this is the moment we're living.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about paying the bill of the countries of the south, think about the transfer of money from the countries of the south to the countries of the centre, in particular to save european commercial banking, and in particular german commercial banking. but that said, after 700 billion euros of taxpayers' money directly buried in european banks, much more is needed than to continue to justify the unjustifiable. as it stands, the banking union is nothing more than a publicity stunt, but misleading. the most important pillar of the guarantee, the common deposit guarantee, has not even started. if we think about what the single resolution mechanism is, the least we can say is that it is insufficient and is still a mirage, and if we think about the existence of the single supervisor which was the one that came into force in the first place, then it is not even worth talking about. it's been in place for about two years and when it was needed it didn't work. look at what happened in my country, banif, a bank that had been bankrupt for two years when the single supervisory system came into force, and yet no one noticed. what happened? what happened? no one explains. responsibilities ? no one does. let's stop with the misleading publicity, please.
blue-card question.– mr hökmark, thank you very much for all the work you have done on the brrd. my question relates precisely to that. it implies bail-in, so costs to the owners of the banks. but are you aware that a substantial part of the european banking industry is safeguarded from this – and i am speaking in particular about the german banks – because there is a kind of big ips that hides, through so-called ‘private’ funding, all the bail-in mechanisms and protects them from the pure application of bail-in? there is no transparency in relation to the state aid mechanisms that, through this, are being introduced in the market. are you aware of that? do you follow that? does this concern you?
mr president, this banking union is not going to solve anything. the supervisory system is ineffective, the resolution system and its fund are short and insufficient, even after shareholder losses, so taxpayers will surely be called upon again to pay to save the systemic banks. just read the legislation, the regulation says, and i quote: an effective resolution regime should minimise the costs borne by taxpayers, or in other words, at minimum cost to taxpayers and the real economy, is what the regulation itself says. it is also significant that this banking union is being carried out before the promised restructuring of the banking system with a pseudo-separation which is another fraud. let us be clear, for us there is no solid solution without a recovery of public control of the banking and financial system. only then will we have a financial system that serves the economy and is truly safe for citizens.
‒ olive oil is the main agricultural product exported from tunisia to the eu. the olive oil sector is an important part of the economy of the country as well as of certain regions of certain member states, particularly the south. the regulation provides for the granting of an annual duty-free tariff quota of 35000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu in 2016 and 2017 (i.e. 70000 tonnes in total). this quota will be opened after the current 56 700 tonnes, also duty-free, as laid down in the eu-tunisia association agreement has been used up. i agree that the commission should carry out a mid-term impact assessment of the impact on the union olive oil market and, if it is found that the european market is affected, propose corrective measures to restore the situation.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, the quota is available for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the philosophy of the measure is the same as that which has explained similar measures in the past, for example in relation to the import of textiles from pakistan. for portugal, as well as for other mediterranean member states, olive oil production is of significant economic and social importance and will be adversely affected by this measure. other measures of genuine and more effective solidarity with the tunisian people could have been taken. that is not the purpose of this measure. this measure benefits european importers (and some limited interests in tunisia) but harms the same importers. the truth is that such measures never harm the most powerful countries in the eu (as was the case with textiles in pakistan, as is now the case with olive oil in tunisia). it is always the same people who bear the costs of this false solidarity.
in the report, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: after the attacks in tunisia, it is important that the european union shows solidarity with that country. however, i have many reservations when i see the european union using trade policy as a bargaining chip in situations of this nature. in this case, the olive oil sector in the southern european countries will be severely affected. the olive oil sector is extremely important for portugal. portugal has been promoting domestic production with investment and internationalisation support, having tripled production between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the union, in consultation with its member states, stated that it would examine exceptional and temporary measures to support the tunisian economy. these support measures are essential to support the economic and social development of this country, which has recently experienced enormous social upheavals and is going through a difficult period. i am voting in favour of this report, but i have made sure that portuguese products, particularly olive oil, are protected. olive oil is the main agricultural product exported from tunisia to the european union and the olive oil sector is an important part of the economy of the country and of certain regions of certain member states. national production, which is important for the dynamisation of our economic activity, must also be safeguarded.
in the light of the regrettable attacks of 26 june 2015, a temporary unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, duty-free, is proposed as an autonomous trade measure for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the european union. a quota to be made available for a period of two years starting on 1 january 2016. olive oil production is of significant economic and social importance not only for portugal but also for other mediterranean member states. we understand the need to provide aid to tunisia, particularly in the wake of the criminal attacks. we cannot accept, however, that the same countries should systematically bear the costs of this solidarity, burdening countries like portugal whose economies are depressed by the austerity policies imposed by the troika, in this case by solidarity which directly conflicts with their national production interests. the european union should activate other solidarity mechanisms to provide appropriate support to tunisia. we voted against the express.
‒ this report proposes to open for the calendar years 2016 and 2017 an annual import tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes for imports into the union of untreated olive oil falling within cn codes 1509 10 10 and 1509 10 90 originating in tunisia, if such untreated olive oil has been wholly produced in tunisia and transported directly from tunisia to the union. after the entry into force of this regulation, the commission shall carry out a mid-term evaluation of the impact of this regulation on the union olive oil market and present the conclusions of that evaluation to the european parliament and to the council. where it is found that the union olive oil market is affected by the provisions of this regulation, the commission shall be empowered to adopt an implementing act providing for corrective measures to restore the situation on that market. this regulation, which i voted in favour only on humanitarian grounds and because it is clearly limited in time, while recognising its impact on the european olive oil sector, is directly applicable in all member states and enters into force on the day following that of its publication in the official journal of the european union and applies until 31 december 2017.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. in this difficult context, the eu reiterates its support through concrete measures aimed at promoting tunisia's economic development. it is in this spirit that the european commission is proposing that a temporary unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, or 70 000 tonnes in total, be granted for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union as an autonomous trade measure without increasing the overall volume of imports. the olive oil sector indirectly provides employment for over one million people and represents one fifth of total agricultural employment in the country. olive oil is tunisia's main agricultural export.
‒ tunisia is going through a period of great turmoil and is a country worthy of european solidarity. the additional quota granted for olive oil exports to the european union is part of this solidarity approach. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. as in any bilateral trade relationship with the eu, due precautions should be taken to ensure stability in the sectoral internal market as well as quality requirements for imports. i therefore believe that the appropriate bodies should have mechanisms in place to alert them to potential imbalances in the functioning of the eu olive oil market, which means regular monitoring of imported quantities. i also believe that this measure should be implemented without setting any precedent in relation to the negotiating process between the eu and tunisia on the establishment of a free trade area.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013, however, we see that the cost of these measures will once again fall on the same people as always, that is to say, on the countries and workers of the southern european countries. if the major powers in the eu want to continue their aggressive policies of interference which encourage terrorism, we think they should not use trade rules to clear their conscience. there are certainly many other possibilities for helping the tunisian economy without making life miserable for portuguese, spanish and italian olive growers.
‒ the european commission has presented the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products which incorporates a complete recast of the legislation on veterinary medicinal products, previously framed by directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004, with the aim of regulating the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle, as well as the applicable pharmacovigilance process. i support the grossetête report because i believe that a specific regulatory framework, adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector, is needed, taking into account the problems that have arisen with the application of the existing legal framework, namely the lack of availability of veterinary medicines, the administrative burdens imposed by regulation, the functioning of the internal market and, of course, the increasingly worrying phenomenon of antibiotic resistance.
‒ the proposal aims to improve the availability of veterinary medicines, reduce administrative burdens, stimulate innovation in the sector and fight antibiotic resistance. antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products should under no circumstances be used to improve production levels or to compensate for non-compliance with good animal husbandry practice. the fight against antibiotic resistance must start on farms. the proposal aims in particular to prohibit the purely preventive use of antibiotics, to restrict mass treatment to very specific cases, to prohibit the veterinary use of antibiotics of critical importance to human medicine and to put an end to the sale of antimicrobial medicines via the internet.
‒ there are positive aspects to this report. ensuring the production of safe, effective and affordable veterinary medicines is an important objective for our producers. the introduction of the question of generics, antimicrobial resistance or small markets are important elements in the right direction. however, the pressure exerted by multinational companies on the eu institutions is evident, as they seek to maximize their privileges and profits. it was necessary to go further in safeguarding the interests of the smaller countries, in order to prevent multinationals from making their products available only in the most profitable markets. the european commission proposal defends the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies by proposing to extend the periods of protection of documentation for antibiotics (18 years instead of 14) and to include major species in the scope of marketing authorization (two additional years instead of one). it also provides for the possibility of introducing a five-year (non-cumulative) protection period for certain new studies or trials after authorisation. we have tabled amendments to lower these document protection periods so that generic companies and small and mediumsized enterprises can access and enter the market.
‒ i voted in favour because i considered that over the years it has become clear that the issues and needs of the veterinary and human sectors are different with regard to medicines, since the existence of multiple species implies greater investment, for example in extending the authorisations of existing medicines from one species to the other. the price-setting must also follow its own logic, otherwise there will be many additional difficulties in the availability of medicines for smaller market sectors such as bees. a separate legal framework for veterinary medicinal products is therefore essential.
‒ new legislation is extremely important to widen the scope for research, development and monitoring of veterinary medicines. farmers need to have effective, affordable and affordable medicines at their disposal. it is important to know more about antimicrobial resistance, which poses a serious threat to humans and animals. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products.
‒ veterinary medicinal products are currently regulated by directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004. i believe that there is a need for new legislation, with the aim of broadening the scope for research, development and monitoring of veterinary medicines and increasing production and profitability in the internal market. some weaknesses in the current legal framework were identified, including the lack of availability of veterinary medicines, the administrative burdens imposed by regulation, the functioning of the internal market and antibiotic resistance. it is important to stress the complexity of the production of veterinary medicinal products, which is in some cases more complex than the production of medicinal products for human use, due to the fragmentation of the market. i am in favour of laws and regulations on the development of veterinary medicines being clear, explicit and simple. i believe it is essential that measures to promote innovation be stepped up and that public health and environmental protection be safeguarded at all times.
‒ we identified positive elements in the report. ensuring the production of safe, effective and affordable veterinary medicines is relevant for our producers. equally important and correct is the introduction of the question of generic medicines, antimicrobial resistance or small markets. the pressure exerted by the big pharmaceutical multinationals on the eu institutions is great and evident, seeking to extend their privileges and profits to the maximum. in this sense, it fails to safeguard the interests of the smaller countries, so as to prevent multinationals from making their products available only in the most profitable markets. the european commission proposal defends the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies by proposing to extend the periods of protection of documentation for antibiotics (18 years instead of 14) and to include major species in the scope of marketing authorization (two additional years instead of one). it also provides for the possibility of introducing a five-year (non-cumulative) protection period for certain new studies or trials after authorisation. we have tabled amendments to lower these document protection periods so that generic companies and small and mediumsized enterprises can access and enter the market.
‒ this report addresses the commission's proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which incorporates a total recast of the legislation and aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle, as well as the applicable pharmacovigilance process. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the necessary differentiation between the market for veterinary medicinal products and the market for human medicinal products, which should only be applied as a last resort and in the absence of a better alternative. in line with the report, i support the need to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicinal products, to strengthen measures to stimulate innovation and to create a system based on regular pharmacovigilance reporting during the first years of the life of the product and subsequently on risk analysis and detection of signs. in view of the above, and also because the report states that special attention should be paid to the protection of the environment, i voted in favour of it.
the commission proposal on veterinary medicinal products was approved. its purpose is to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle, as well as the applicable pharmacovigilance process. the commission proposal has the following main objectives: to improve access to and availability of medicines; to reduce administrative burdens, particularly in relation to the pharmacovigilance process; to stimulate innovation and competitiveness in the sector; to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in veterinary medicines; and to combat antibiotic resistance. the proposal also aims to clearly differentiate the market for veterinary medicinal products from the market for human medicinal products. i disagreed only with the extension of the periods of protection of the technical documentation for veterinary medicinal products, which i consider to be an unnecessary obstacle to market access for generic medicinal products, allowing them to increase the availability of medicinal products, financial access (price control) to them and to promote their own competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ there are positive aspects to this regulation. ensuring the production of safe, effective and affordable veterinary medicines is an important objective for our producers. the introduction of the question of generics, antimicrobial resistance or small markets is an important element that is going in the right direction. we believe, however, that the same could go further, were it not for the pressure of multinational companies which want to extend their privileges to the maximum, capturing monopoly rents if possible for all eternity. we could have gone further by extending the centralised method, which in our view is the only method which safeguards the interests of the smaller countries and prevents multinationals from making their products available only in the most profitable markets. let us be clear, however. the great concern about the safety and proper use of veterinary medicinal products is not resolved by this regulation alone: the problem is solved by attacking the root of the problem, which lies in a essentially productivist cap that promotes intensive monoculture and destroys small and mediumsized family farming in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the grossetête report, which seeks to ban the routine use of antibiotics in healthy animals to help combat antimicrobial resistance. the widespread use of antimicrobial antibiotics in europe not only raises serious animal welfare concerns, but also poses a real threat to human and animal health. europe now has one of the highest rates of antimicrobial resistance in the world. among the measures supported by the socialist group in this area, i would highlight the proposal for the creation of a harmonised digital prescription system throughout europe. the issuing and control of revenue should be carried out at national level, at least until a union system is in place to allow for the control of cross-border revenue.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency should be amended to take account of the fact that the centralised marketing authorisation procedure for veterinary medicinal products will be separated from the procedure for medicinal products for human use. i support the tanasescu report because it is a positive step to dissociate marketing authorizations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human use, taking into account the specific needs of the veterinary sector.
‒ the commission has published a proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicines into a regulation to fully decouple the provisions governing veterinary medicines from those governing human medicines. i therefore support this proposal, which is in line with the lisbon treaty, even though it can be improved, particularly as regards the fees charged by the agency.
in writing. ‒ in september 2014, the european commission published a proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicines into a single regulation, fully separating the provisions governing veterinary medicines from those governing human medicines. this new regulation repeals and replaces directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products and amends regulation (ec) no 726/2004 in order to remove any reference to veterinary medicinal products and separates marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human use in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. in addition, a european medicines agency is established, with a clear indication of its role in the authorisation and supervision of products for veterinary use through the centralised procedure. the current regulation no 297/95 on the general system of fees charged by the european medicines agency and regulation (eu) no 658/2014 on pharmacovigilance fees should remain as the legal basis until the revision of regulation (ec) no 297/95 or any other provisions on fees are adopted and enter into force. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as i understand that this report includes animal welfare concerns, provides for widespread access to new technologies in order to reduce disparities, is based on a science-based authorisation system and includes an obligation to report annually on the use of antimicrobial agents.
‒ the commission considers that its proposal to repeal directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products should amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. i am in favour of harmonising the legislation at member state level on the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure clarity, simplicity and legal certainty, but above all the protection of public health and the environment. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal should be improved in some respects, particularly as regards the structure and level of fees charged by the agency. i also believe, as does the rapporteur, that parliament should be involved in setting the fees charged by the agency, as is the case with legislation on pharmacovigilance. this would ensure codecision in this area.
‒ in september 2014, the commission proposed to bring together the rules on veterinary medicines into a single regulation, fully separating the provisions governing veterinary medicines from those governing human medicines. this new regulation repealed and replaced directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products by amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 to remove any reference to veterinary medicinal products. it also distinguishes and separates marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human use in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. it has created a european medicines agency with a clear role in the authorisation and supervision of products for veterinary use through the centralised procedure. the current regulation no 297/95 on the general system of fees charged by the european medicines agency and regulation (eu) no 658/2014 on pharmacovigilance fees should remain as the legal basis until the revision of regulation (ec) no 297/95 or any other provisions on fees are adopted and enter into force. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which gives an opinion on the commission's proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicinal products, which aims to fully decouple the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products from those governing human medicinal products, in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. like the rapporteur, i welcome the alignment of the proposal with the lisbon treaty. however, i agree that it should continue to be improved in some respects. to this end, i believe that the european parliament should be fully involved in the setting of fees charged by the european medicines agency and that a full codecision procedure should be established in this area. i also agree that amendments are needed to clarify and update the principles governing the fees charged by the agency and the possibility for the agency to have access to other sources of funding to support its work on public health projects. finally, i voted in favour of this report because it reinforces the commission's commitment to ensure that the new measures take account of the specificities of the veterinary sector and that the fees remain affordable to the veterinary industry.
‒ in september 2014, the commission published a proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicines into a regulation, completely separating the provisions governing veterinary medicines from those governing human medicines. this new regulation repeals and replaces directive 2001/82/ec and amends regulation (ec) no 726/2004 in order to remove any references to veterinary medicinal products and to decouple marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human use in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. a european medicines agency is also established, with a clear indication of its role in the authorisation and supervision of products for veterinary use through the centralised procedure. the current regulation no 297/95 on the general system of fees charged by the european medicines agency and regulation (eu) no 658/2014 on pharmacovigilance fees should remain as the legal basis until the revision of regulation (ec) no 297/95 or any other provisions on fees are adopted and enter into force.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the european parliament has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. this reform aims to improve the efficiency and availability of veterinary medicines in the eu while safeguarding human health and the impact on the environment. these objectives include restricting the overuse of antibiotics in agricultural practices, seeking to avoid antimicrobial resistance, and the traceability of antibiotics in the eu whose active pharmaceutical substances pose significant environmental risks.
‒ the growth rate of the big data market by 2017 will be six times that of the global ict market and will reach an overall total of eur 50 billion, which could generate 3.75 million new jobs by that year. the volume of data is growing at an unprecedented rate, so that by 2020 there will be more than 16 billion gigabytes of data, which is equivalent to an annual growth rate of 236 percent in terms of data generation. this proposal highlights the social and economic benefits associated with the integrated use of data in all sectors of the european economy and in all fields of european research, as well as the right of individuals to access up-to-date and relevant data and information on data processing.
‒ this motion for a resolution on 'towards a thriving data economy' is linked to the digital single market strategy, where 'development of market-oriented rules', 'public-private partnerships in big data' and 'new business models' are just some of the keywords on the mainstream neoliberal agenda. 'job creation', 'sme growth' and 'data protection' are all references that appear here as mere embellishments to a document that is daily contradicted by the implacable reality, in which thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises appear and disappear through bankruptcy, always with the promise of a prosperous horizon, a mirage for the overwhelming majority. unemployment remains very high in the eu, particularly in portugal. this resolution sets out a series of proposals which are unacceptable at various levels. the proposals in the field of data protection, for example, contain unacceptable concessions to multinationals and limitations on the action of the states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the digital single market is not a one-off event. nothing new about that. you're approaching a relevant topic from a totally wrong angle. we voted against it.
‒ according to the international data corporation, the growth rate of the big data market will be six times that of the global ict market by 2017, reaching an overall total of eur 50 billion, which could generate 3.75 million new jobs. the unprecedented exponential increase in data volume means that by 2020, there will be more than 16 trillion gigabytes of data, equivalent to a growth rate of 236 percent per year in terms of data generation. i am in favour of creating a data economy on the basis of the digital single market strategy, which will enable europe to regain competitiveness in advanced sectors and accelerate its economic recovery, investment in growth and innovation in all sectors. to do this, we need to have a business-friendly environment with a modern and future-proof regulatory framework that stimulates and promotes investment in the network infrastructure needed to meet the demands of the digital economy. i stress the importance of adopting policies that remove the excess of barriers in innovative sectors that encourage investment in research and development and european standardisation.
‒ this resolution is intrinsically linked to the digital single market strategy, where some of the rhetoric that is flourishing with the dominant neoliberal strategy is promoted, such as 'development of market-oriented norms', 'public-private partnerships in big data' and 'new business models'. 'job creation', 'sme growth' and 'data protection' are all references that mask the reality, where thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises appear and disappear through bankruptcy, always with the promise of a prosperous horizon, a mirage for the overwhelming majority. unemployment remains at very high levels in the eu, particularly in portugal. the resolution makes a number of proposals which we consider unacceptable. the unacceptable concessions to multinationals in the field of data protection and limitations on the action of states are examples. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the theme 'towards a thriving data economy', considering that the creation of a data economy based on the digital single market strategy will allow europe to regain competitiveness in advanced sectors and accelerate its economic recovery, investment in growth and innovation. i agree that a data economy requires advanced skills and will therefore contribute to the creation of a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years. i therefore welcome this report for recognising the social and economic benefits associated with the integrated use of data in all sectors and fields of the european economy and research. i would stress, however, the importance of adopting a data protection package, which falls within the scope of eu data protection legislation. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, also because i consider it important for the private sector to invest and to support start-ups and smes in the data economy. i therefore recognise the importance of promoting initiatives and public debates in the member states on the benefits and value of digital technologies, with the aim of involving society.
‒ the growth rate of the big data market by 2017 will be six times that of the overall ict market and will reach an overall total of eur 50 billion, which could generate 3.75 million new jobs by 2017. the benefits of a data economy at national and european level are expected to have an impact on society and all types of companies in the value chain, recognising its potential to enable europe to regain competitiveness in advanced sectors and to accelerate its economic recovery, investment in growth and innovation in all sectors. however, this will only be possible in the presence of a conducive business environment and if there are ways to trigger the digital transformation, and only if these technologies respect the legal framework of the european union on data protection in order to overcome the associated risks and challenges, in particular in terms of fundamental rights.
‒ the growth rate of the big data market by 2017 will be six times higher than the global ict market and reach an overall total of eur 50 billion according to the international data corporation's forecasts on global big data technologies and services for 2013-2017, which could generate, according to the report, 3.75 million new jobs by 2017, according to the public-private partnership on big data. the benefits of a data economy at national and european level should have an impact on society and all types of companies in the value chain as part of the creation of a data economy on the basis of the digital single market strategy. it is true that the report does not say a word about the need for public control of this market, continuing to believe that the market will take care of all the problems. it shows that nothing has been learned from the past.
‒ i voted in favour of the initiative on creating effective conditions for the development of a thriving data economy, which confirms the strategic role of the european parliament in the development of the digital agenda. i stress the need to ensure transparency and fair access to data, to promote open access to relevant data while respecting legal protection, to foster the development of new business areas that generate wealth and jobs, opening up opportunities not only for large companies but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, new entrepreneurs and start-ups. i also stress the importance of ensuring the stability of the legal framework, supporting the development of infrastructure and focusing on research and training in a context of promoting digital inclusion.
in writing. the motion in question describes the situation in eritrea with the realism and the crudity due to a country which, as stated in the recent report of the un special envoy, has one of the worst human rights records in the world. the motion is all the more relevant as european citizens are very little aware of the situation of eritreans, despite the fact that 7% of the refugees arriving at the eu's external borders are from that country. i consider it particularly important to call on the eritrean government to put an end to the system of indefinite military service which is one of the main reasons behind the exodus of 9% of the population since the 1990s. the european parliament has also called on the commission to ensure that the funds allocated to eritrea in 2016 under the national indicative programme are effectively used for the benefit of eritreans, and criticised the fact that the commission and the council ignored the ep's recommendation that the programme be given greater weight, given the regime's notorious lack of credibility as a partner for cooperation and development.
‒ the eu has been supporting eritrea since its independence from ethiopia in 1993, but the initial promise of democracy and the rule of law after the country's independence was curtailed by the eritrean government under the pretext of national defence and national service. the truth is that several electoral processes did not take place and the hopes of building a country that respects human rights and is free from repression were dashed. eritrea has one of the worst human rights records in the world. human rights violations occur every day and there has been no improvement in recent years. i am therefore deeply concerned at the continuation of the catastrophic human rights situation and i consider it imperative to give priority to the fight against the judicial deficit, democratic governance and the restoration of the rule of law.
in writing. - this resolution on the situation in eritrea is yet another example of the european union's policy of interference, in line with the interests of the imperialist powers it represents. the difficult economic and social situation in eritrea has its causes and its perpetrators. the imperialist powers continue to regard certain regions, and particularly africa, as colonies and not as independent and sovereign states. if governments serve their interests of plundering the wealth of countries and exploiting peoples, they are supported; if the opposite happens, the wrath of the imperialists falls on them. we believe that the problems that exist must be solved by the action and struggle of the eritrean people and not by any external intervention or interference. the horn of africa region has been affected by constant destabilisation. somalia and uganda are examples. this is a region which, because of its position and its wealth, could free itself from dependence if there were peace in the region, something which the imperialist powers do not want. it is in the face of instability, often instigated, that they best defend their interests. this resolution also seeks to hide what is happening in yemen, which is very close by.
‒ the eu has supported eritrea since its independence from ethiopia in 1993, based on the initial promise of democracy and the rule of law after independence. there are reports by the un special rapporteur, the un commission of inquiry on human rights and human rights watch describing human rights violations, torture, forced labour, lack of religious freedom, homosexual practices as illegal and discrimination and violence against women. the un special rapporteur on human rights in eritrea highlights the following concerns: the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to decent housing; human smuggling and trafficking and the increasing number of unaccompanied minors who are part of the more than 5 000 people fleeing the country every month. i believe that the international community should press the eritrean government to allow foreign aid to support vulnerable communities and that the eu should take steps to have assurances from the eritrean government that it will implement democratic reforms and ensure respect for human rights.
in the light of the recent events in the region, the european union is proposing to extend the mandate of the european union to the whole of the region. the difficult economic and social situation in eritrea has its causes and its perpetrators. the imperialist powers continue to regard certain regions, and in particular africa, as colonies and not as independent and sovereign states. if governments serve their interests of plundering the wealth of countries and exploiting peoples, they are supported; if the opposite happens, the wrath of the imperialists falls on them. we believe that the problems that exist must be solved solely and exclusively by the action and struggle of the eritrean people and not by any external intervention, whatever form it takes. the horn of africa region has been affected by constant destabilisation. somalia and uganda are examples. this is a region which, because of its position and its wealth, could free itself from dependence if there were peace in the region, something which the imperialist powers do not want. we also stress that we understand that the european union is trying to hide, with this resolution, what is happening very close by in the yemen war.
‒ this motion for a resolution was tabled following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in eritrea. i welcome the document for agreeing that eritrea should fully implement its ratified constitution and protect the rights enshrined in it. more specifically, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree with the following recommendations: (1) eritrea should sign, ratify and immediately implement the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; (2) arbitrary detention, enforced disappearance and indefinite detention without charge or trial should be ended; (3) the government should acknowledge the existence of human rights violations and ensure accountability for past human rights violations; the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. finally, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree that the extremely high number of eritrean refugees trying to cross the mediterranean to europe is a cause for concern, and this is due to the undemocratic and totalitarian regime in eritrea, which must be reformed immediately.
‒ the european union must make every effort to ensure that the eritrean government puts an end to the detention of opposition members and innocent civilians, and that fair trials are conducted for the accused and that torture and other inhumane treatment, such as restrictions on food, water and health care, are abolished. the eritrean government continues to pursue policies which are in breach of human rights, a factor which is absolutely decisive for the numbers of emigration among its population.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the region is marked by numerous conflicts. eritrea is very close to yemen, where there is still a war. we have the horn of africa region marked by instability. these situations only serve imperialist interests in their attempt to set countries against countries, to stimulate internal problems. in this way these countries remain dependent and subject to their interests. the horn of africa could be very rich if there were not so many problems and if there were understanding between the different countries, because it is a region rich in resources and well positioned geographically. these draft resolutions propose further intervention in these countries. if there are problems, it should be the people of those countries who solve them. external interventions and pressures, always with their economic and geostrategic interests behind them, will only postpone any possibility of resolution.
‒ the report presents a detailed, fairly comprehensive and factual diagnosis, touching on all the essential points for a future accession of macedonia. among the various problems identified, the outstanding examples are the still persistent problems with the independence of the judiciary and the weak oversight of the secret services. however, there are positive aspects, such as the development of children's rights. in any case, i do not think that this is the right time, nor in the near future, for further enlargement of the union. which is why i'm abstaining.
‒ the prospect of eu accession for the republic of macedonia is an important incentive for further reforms, notably in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as well as a source of hope for a prosperous future for the younger generations. the process of this republic is ten years old and one of the most advanced. i welcome the fact that a number of obligations under the agreement have been fulfilled within the agreed deadlines and objectives, but i regret the tendency to delay some of the commitments, as well as some backsliding. i agree that all parties should put the interests of the country above their own.
‒ this is a report that is part of the follow-up process to the eu accession proposal by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the political situation in this country remains unstable. the report also highlights the disagreement with greece over the designation of the country, which is still surrounded by nationalist rhetoric, to which the eu wants to add interference which, instead of bringing people together, pushes them apart. this issue must not be resolved by pressure but under international law and under the auspices of the un. the commission has also been very active in this area. the eu's proposal that the country should pursue a policy of budgetary discipline, in the image of the eu member states, and that it should strengthen the internal electricity market, which in other words means liberalisation, should be underlined. the alignment with the eu's foreign policy is another of the requirements, as is the process of nato accession. the policy of border controls to respond to the migration crisis is to some extent praised, but deserves our most vehement condemnation.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has since its independence in 1991 faced some opposition from the greek side, in particular as regards its nomenclature. in 2004 the jra of macedonia applied for membership of the union, achieving candidate country status in 2005. however, as of today, negotiations have not yet started and it is expected that they will only be possible if the government complies with the june/july 2015 quadrilateral agreement. i am in favour of this report, which calls for negotiations to begin as soon as possible. the country faces problems of political instability and violations of freedom of expression, media and the independence of the judiciary, which can be solved with the support of the union. despite the controversy, i believe it is extremely important that we support the political, social and economic development of the people of the fyr of macedonia. we should also not forget that the country has been facing an unprecedented influx of refugees transiting its territory. the solution must also be to support this country.
‒ this report is part of the follow-up process to the proposal for accession to the european union by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, a country which is still politically unstable. the report also mentions the disagreement with greece over the country's name, to which the european union adds a policy of interference which, instead of bringing people together, pushes them apart. this issue must not be resolved by pressure but under international law and under the auspices of the un. the commission has also been very active in this area. the european union has proposed that the country should pursue a policy of budgetary discipline in the image of the countries of the union and that it should strengthen the internal electricity market, which in other words means the liberalisation of prices and services. the alignment with the european union's foreign policy is another of the requirements, as is the process of accession to nato. the policy of border controls to respond to the migration crisis is partly praised, which we reject. we voted against it.
‒ this motion for a resolution follows statements by the council and the commission on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i voted in favour of this document because it states the need for the four main parties in macedonia to engage in political dialogue and to continue efforts to restore public confidence in the institutions in order to maintain political stability, accelerate the country's reform programme and, consequently, ensure the country's euro-atlantic integration. to this end, recommendations are made, with which i agree and of which i would like to highlight: (1) the importance of the leaders of the main parties seeking to strengthen good neighbourly relations as a key factor in bringing the country closer to the eu; (2) the need for better budgetary discipline; (3) the importance of freedom and independence of the media as a core value of the eu; (4) the improvement of the overall level of alignment with the eu's foreign policy; and (5) the opening of nato accession negotiations, which could contribute to increased security and political stability in south east europe. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ the country has been a candidate for accession to the european union for ten years and is considered one of the most advanced candidates. the commission, the council and parliament agree that the maintenance of the positive recommendation for the country's accession is conditional on the full implementation of significant progress in implementing the urgent reform priorities. the recent political crisis has demonstrated that the macedonian institutions lack an effective system of checks and balances and that there is a need to increase transparency and public accountability, including through appropriate oversight mechanisms of key internal services and structures. critical issues in the reform process include political interference in the media, the judiciary and public administration, as well as corruption.
‒ as in other former yugoslav republics, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is unstable and a destabilising factor for the whole region. the negotiations with greece on the country's designation are still ongoing, in a process surrounded by a nationalist rhetoric which, instead of bringing people together, is driving them apart. this proposal is once again aimed at speeding up the date for the opening of accession negotiations, which is disrespectful of the sovereignty of the peoples of both countries and only serves to exacerbate existing divisions and rifts. the eu accession is a process of sovereign decision of each people, as is the right to economic and social development. it should be up to each people to make a free decision, without any outside interference, based on a free and in-depth debate based on reality and not on the never-confirmed myths surrounding eu membership. it is unacceptable that the interests of the yugoslav republic of macedonia's accession to nato, a process inseparable from the militarisation of the eu and the enlargement of its spheres of influence in the strategic region of the balkans, should override the interests and rights of the people.
‒ the report presents a detailed, fairly comprehensive and factual diagnosis, touching on all the essential points for a future accession of montenegro. the various problems that remain include the need to strengthen the national electoral commission and the lack of improvements in asylum policy. however, it should be stressed that developments have taken place in certain areas, such as the social system and the role of civil society organisations in the legislative process. in any case, i do not think that this is the right time, nor in the near future, for further enlargement of the union. which is why i'm abstaining.
‒ the report notes that there has been further progress in the accession negotiations with montenegro and that two more negotiating chapters have recently been opened on transport and energy. however, sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation between the ruling coalition and the opposition are essential if the accession process is to continue to progress and free, fair and transparent parliamentary elections are essential for the democratic future of that country. i also agree that progress in the negotiations must be accompanied by a strict implementation of the relevant strategies and action plans and is dependent on parallel progress in the area of the implementation of the rule of law.
‒ this report is part of the monitoring of montenegro's eu accession process. after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among the peoples of the former yugoslavia, the great powers of the eu and nato continue to seek to extend their economic dominance, to exploit these peoples and their natural resources. the measures in this report are an attack on the sovereignty of this people, and represent unacceptable interference at all levels in the economy, foreign policy, the political organization of the state and other aspects, which we condemn. the policies pursued are already having negative social consequences such as increasing poverty and unemployment among young people. we reject the role of nato and the pressure that the eu is putting on this country in this report to join this organisation. we reject the praise that is given to the country's alignment with the eu's foreign policy and, in particular, with the sanctions imposed on russia, which once again demonstrate the alignment of the eu with the self-styled fascist forces in the ukrainian government.
‒ in 2006, montenegro declared its independence from the state of serbia and in 2008 it applied for membership of the union. four years later the council approved the opening of negotiations granting montenegro the status of candidate country. the copenhagen criteria have been implemented by the montenegrin authorities, in particular in their political, economic and social dimension, as well as the application of the community acquis. despite the progress made in the negotiations, there are fears that political instability could affect the actual implementation of the reforms. i would also like to stress that the conditions for freedom of expression and information for the media must be guaranteed, since this is a basic pillar of the rule of law. i therefore vote in favour of the efforts made by montenegro, its entities and its citizens.
‒ this report is part of the monitoring of montenegro's accession to the european union. after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among the peoples of the former yugoslavia, the great powers of the eu and nato continue to seek to extend their economic domination and exploitation of these peoples and their natural resources. the measures in the report are an attack on the sovereignty of this people and represent at every level unacceptable interference in the economy, foreign policy or political organisation of the state we reject. the policies pursued are already having negative social consequences such as increasing poverty and unemployment among young people. we reject the role of nato and the pressure exerted by the european union in this report to bring this country into the organization. we reject the praise that is given to the country's alignment with the european union's foreign policy and, in particular, to the sanctions it has imposed on russia because of the annexation of crimea, which once again demonstrate the alignment of the european union with the fascist government of ukraine. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution welcoming the progress made in the accession negotiations with montenegro, as we agree that overall progress in the negotiations depends on parallel progress in the area of the implementation of the rule of law and on the achievement of visible results in this area. however, and recognising the need to strengthen the capacity of the montenegrin parliament, i believe that greater parliamentary control of the accession process is indispensable. to this end, all political forces should resume a sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation in the montenegrin parliament. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree with the recommendations concerning montenegro's eu accession process, of which i would highlight: (1) greater depoliticization of the public administration; (2) ensuring the independence of the judiciary; (3) allocating adequate resources to policies and services relating to children's rights and in the area of asylum and migration; (4) strengthening the legislative and institutional framework to fight corruption; (5) adopting additional measures against trafficking in human beings; and (6) strengthening the sme sector and the provision of support through better legislation and financing.
in writing. ‒ new progress has been made in the accession negotiations with montenegro. this is the candidate country whose negotiation process is at the most advanced stage. montenegro should continue to develop an impeccable record of respect for the rule of law, a key precondition for accession to the european union, stressing that sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation between the ruling coalition and the opposition are essential for the accession process to continue to progress.
in writing. ‒ after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among the peoples of the former yugoslavia, the great powers of the eu and nato are now seeking to impose their economic dominance, exploit their peoples and their natural resources. in other words, what is at stake here, and is presented as a condition for accession, is the amendment of its labour legislation, the electoral law, the end of the sovereign mechanisms for protecting the economy and productive activity - destroying smes and the productions of small and medium-sized farmers -, the implementation of privatizations, among other neoliberal measures that are contrary to the interests of the montenegrins. the proposal welcomes montenegro's commitment to join nato and its contribution to its missions, and considers it a positive step towards eu membership, demonstrating once again the link between eu and nato enlargement, with the former being the european pillar of the latter.
‒ the banking union is an essential component of the economic and monetary union of the european union and comprises three fundamental pillars: the single supervisory mechanism, the single resolution mechanism and a uniform deposit guarantee scheme. i support this report, which is the first annual report on the banking union and which reinforces the urgency of a common european response to the banking system in general, reducing the risk of a repetition of the negative effects felt throughout the union by the recent crisis, thus contributing to the safety and soundness of credit institutions and to the stability of the financial system. i welcome the commission's package of measures on risk sharing and risk reduction in the banking union, as the proper functioning of a deposit guarantee scheme financed by contributions from the financial sector is one of the proven ways to avoid bailouts of banks with taxpayers' money.
‒ europe has made important steps towards building a banking union, but a single deposit guarantee system is needed to complete the project. the next step should be to create a single deposit guarantee scheme offering protection for deposits above eur 100 000 as a way of ensuring the credibility of the project. on the other hand, it is necessary to implement measures that reduce risk in the banking system and, in parallel, to create a single deposit guarantee system, thus avoiding further delays in the progress of the banking union. i voted in favour.
‒ the banking union is yet another demonstration of the false solutions and the leaps forward attempted to solve the deep crisis in the eu and the deepening of capitalist integration. in addition to deepening the attack on the sovereignty of states and promoting the monopolistic concentration of the financial sector at eu level, this banking union is based on a system of banking supervision which has already proven in its short existence that it is not effective, as we painfully know in portugal. the resolution system and its resolution pool is short and clearly insufficient even after shareholder losses, so taxpayers will surely be called upon again to pay to bail out systemic banks. it is also significant that we are moving ahead with this banking union before the promised restructuring of the banking system with a pseudo-separation which is another fraud, to give the impression that something is being done while everything remains the same. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. what is required is the restoration of public control of banking and the financial system, as a guarantee of a financial system that serves the economy and is truly secure.
‒ banking union is essential to ensure stability and restore confidence in banks, strengthen financial integration and reduce risk in the european banking system. the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is the first pillar of the banking union and aims to ensure uniform supervision of banks in the member states, to establish a level playing field in the banking market and to contribute to the safety and soundness of credit institutions and to the stability of the financial system, while respecting the diversity of banks and their business models. i believe that the european central bank, in its supervisory strategy, should take account of and safeguard the pluralism and diversity of banking models in the european union, including mutual, cooperative and savings banks, and respect the principle of proportionality. the european union must strive to ensure careful and effective banking supervision, capable of providing a high and uniform level of deposit protection, with a view to restoring depositors' confidence, establishing a level playing field and, most importantly, strengthening financial stability.
‒ the banking union is a good example of the false solutions and the attempts to escape to resolve the deep crisis in the eu and in the process of deepening capitalist integration. it continues and intensifies the attack on the sovereignty of states, it promotes the monopolistic concentration of the financial sector at eu level, and it is based on a system of banking supervision which is manifestly ineffective. the common resolution system and fund are insufficient and will once again force taxpayers to pay to save the systemic banks. we note and it is significant that progress is being made with this banking union before the promised restructuring of the banking system. what is required is the restoration of public control of banking and the financial system, as a guarantee of a financial system which is really safe and truly at the service of the economy. we are against the banking union in principle, so we voted against it.
‒ this resolution consists first of all in an analysis of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), which i believe should be improved. i voted in favour of this document because i agree with the need to extend the representation of the banking union, through the future involvement and participation of the competent national authorities of the non-participating member states. in addition to welcoming the operational structure of the ssm, i support the formulation of proposals aimed at reducing the operational burden on structures at all levels and improving the effectiveness of the ssm. i voted in favour of this resolution because i also agree that the internal resolution teams, as structures equivalent to the ssm joint supervisory teams, constitute a good basis for organising cooperation within the single resolution mechanism (srm). i therefore stress the importance of good cooperation between the srm and the competent national authorities. finally, i welcome this document for pointing out that the proper functioning of a deposit guarantee scheme financed by contributions from the financial sector is one of the proven ways of avoiding bailouts of banks with taxpayers' money.
‒ the first annual report on the banking union. the banking union is a mechanism to ensure the safety and resilience of the banking sector, to restore citizens' trust in these institutions, to provide investment in the real economy and to ensure a high level of protection for citizens against the failure of banks and financial firms. among other things, this report assesses banking supervision, the single resolution mechanism, the proposal for a european deposit guarantee scheme, the conditions for financing small and mediumsized enterprises, etc.
in writing. ‒ the banking union under discussion today is yet another demonstration of the false solutions found to solve the deep systemic crisis in which the eu has been embroiled for more than a decade. as can be easily demonstrated, this banking union solves nothing. it is based on a banking supervision system which has already proved in its short existence that it is not effective, as we painfully know in portugal. the resolution system and its resolution pool is short and clearly insufficient even after shareholder losses, so taxpayers will surely be called upon again to pay to bail out systemic banks. and read the regulation that says it, and i quote: "an effective resolution regime should minimise the costs to taxpayers or beyond, "with minimal costs to taxpayers and the real economy". it is also significant that this banking union is moving ahead of the promised restructuring of the banking system. let us be clear, for us, there is no solid solution without a recovery of public control of the banking and financial system. only then will we have a financial system that serves the economy and is truly safe for citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of the gualtieri report because i believe in a banking union that can ensure the safety and resilience of the banking and financial sector while ensuring a high level of protection for citizens against bank failure and the insolvency of financial institutions. the socialist group has supported the two pillars of this banking union from the outset: the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism. however, i would stress that the third pillar of this banking union, the european deposit insurance scheme, is still to be completed. a robust deposit guarantee system financed by contributions from the financial sector could avoid bailouts of banks with taxpayers' money. in the absence of this missing element, banking union cannot be considered completed and therefore capable of achieving the ambition it sets out to achieve. that should be our priority for next year.
for the gue/ngl group according to a popular adage used in portugal, 'who sows winds reaps storms'. the european institutions have decided to create a completely unregulated cap, relying on market rules to solve all problems. the results are in sight and demonstrate that public production regulation instruments are an indispensable tool. portugal was self-sufficient in pigmeat in 1993 when the frontiers were opened. today we import 40 percent of what we consume. prices are unbearably low, endangering the entire ranks. commissioner, this is an urgent situation. he doesn't sympathize with minor palliatives, much less further study. we demand immediate and vigorous action. we want measures to enable producers to be paid fairly for their work and to put an end to the abusive practices of large-scale distribution. we want the right of each country to produce to be safeguarded in order to guarantee minimum levels of food sovereignty. what we do not want, commissioner, is to see another vital sector of our economy disappear, like so many others we have lost since our accession to the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the work he has done on this report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of the most serious problems facing the european union today is the alienation of citizens and even some member states from the union's own institutions. i think that mr karin's report starts from this problem and seeks with rigor and seriousness to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are properly applied. in doing so, it will make a decisive contribution to enhancing the prestige of the union's institutions and bringing them closer to the citizens. bringing the european union closer to its citizens, not further away. it is important that the laws are understandable and that the process is simple and accessible to the general public, on whose behalf we act and intervene here. the results of the european elections show that citizens are increasingly alienated from the union itself, from the community institutions themselves. in this connection, i would like to once again welcome the work of mr karin and commend his efforts to combat this problem, this issue, in the european union. i support the report, i will vote in favour of it, and i have just one small point here which is practically out of date, namely the possibility of extending the time limit for national parliaments to take a decision, extending that time limit from eight to twelve weeks. i agree that an extension of the deadline will allow for more in-depth and reasoned analysis of the reports by the national parliaments and that will give prestige to the european union itself. i would like to say, however, that the treaty does not provide for this possibility, but the council and the member states have unanimously approved this extension of this deadline and i therefore think that the matter is outdated, in the near future it should be introduced into the treaty itself.
madam president, commissioner, i think it is important to acknowledge that there is a very interesting defence of fishing in the remotest areas, that is to say, the outermost regions of europe, in this report. in fact, in the azores, where i come from, there are particularities that must be defended, ensuring the protection of smaller fleets and the implementation of genuine alternative blue economy projects. this approach must be based on scientific research and governed by consistency of economic opportunities and identification of environmental constraints. the result should be a convergence of interests in areas such as diversification of the use of the sea, the promotion of the dignity and the improvement of the training of fishermen and the exploitation of biological resources. that is also why i would like to stress the possibility, mentioned in the owninitiative report, of extending the action of the european maritime and fisheries fund to cover systems similar to the long-lost posei fisheries.
madam president, the reform of the common fisheries policy has not helped to solve the serious problems facing small-scale coastal fishing, artisanal fishing and the regions most dependent on them, as was supposed to be the case. on the contrary, many problems have become worse. we want to stress the need for long-standing proposals, which have been confirmed by the development of reality. the development of a specific community programme to support small-scale fishing, the promotion of differentiated treatment with management schemes and models adapted to the specific characteristics and problems of this sector, support for fleet renewal and modernisation, the improvement of the sector's income, if necessary by intervening in its value chain in order to enhance the prices paid for production, the dedication and extension of exclusive access reserve areas in order to better protect fleets and local communities, giving them priority in access to resources. it is not enough to make loud proclamations in defence of small-scale fishing. these declarations must be translated into concrete commitments and concrete measures, far beyond what has been done.
madam president, commissioner, i also welcome the rapporteur. fisheries are a component of marine biodiversity and fisheries are the human activity with the greatest impact on this biodiversity. i therefore consider that an integrated legal and scientific approach is indispensable. i would therefore like to stress in this report the mention of vulnerable marine ecosystems and ecologically and biologically significant areas. the first reflects the recognition of environmental sensitivity by fao, closer to resource maintenance, and the second reflects the recognition of the convention on biological diversity, usually closer to concerns regarding biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. it seems to me that the integration of both approaches in this report could help to provide policy consistency in support of the implementation of a global network of marine protected areas in areas beyond national jurisdiction, in my view fundamental to the conservation of the oceans and their resources.
madam president, the conservation of marine biodiversity, particularly in international waters, unquestionably requires an effort of cooperation and concertation at international level. the united nations is the appropriate forum for establishing and deepening, as required and as evolving circumstances require, such cooperation and concertation with a view to the sound conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, in accordance with criteria of justice and equity. the convention on the law of the sea is, among others, an appropriate instrument to pursue these aims. the measures to be implemented should be based on sound scientific knowledge and a thorough assessment of the impact of the various activities carried out in the marine environment. the european union has a role here which has not always been played with the consistency and the means that were justified. quite the opposite. the example of deep-sea fishing is illustrative. why is it that what is harmful in eu waters is acceptable in international waters?
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs linnéa engström. the formation of a preliminary working document and the constant openness to suggestions from the various shadow rapporteurs seemed to me a particularly appropriate way of drawing up parliament's own-initiative reports. this is an important document, as i have already said, and i agree with what mr gabriel mato has said, but i think it is only a failure to recognise that marine biodiversity is under pressure, with fisheries being among the most immediate threats. i'm sorry this didn't make it into the article. on the positive side, there are many points to be made, and these are the ones which will lead me to vote in favour of this document for which i was the shadow rapporteur for the socialists and democrats. among these, i think it is particularly important to mention a single register for vessels operating in international waters. we must put an end to the constant changing of flags, a practice so widely used by rogue shipowners.
madam president, commissioner, the external dimension of the common fisheries policy is sick with many of the problems, shortcomings, limitations and contradictions of the cfp itself in its various internal dimensions. we have been very critical of this policy and its practical results. under fisheries agreements, so-called partnerships, but with very little real partnership, all or almost all of it is financial transfers, always small, to developing countries in exchange for the right to exploit their fisheries resources. in many cases this has been the case for decades. these countries are continually deprived of the added value they would obtain if they were to exploit their own resources, thus jeopardizing the possibility of creating wealth and employment, their development, sovereignty and independence. the failure of the european union's cooperation policy in this area must be acknowledged and profound changes must be made, involving the countries concerned and linking the external dimension of the cfp more effectively with development cooperation policy, which is intended to be more genuine and effective.
mr president, the kyenge-metsola report proposes solidarity and common sense, the opposite of what i saw in the wild camp in idomeni, where yesterday men, women and children were miserably shot at by forces from neighbouring fyrom. the opposite also of the eu-turkey agreement, which focuses on forced return, which causes the european union to violate international law and human rights, also by detaining thousands in hotspots, as i saw in moria, lesbos de facto detention center. it doesn't deter refugees from coming and it gives more business to the drug mafia. without saying so, chancellor merkel is doing the opposite of what she announced in the summer: she is giving in to populism and has the union deport asylum seekers. and that is why the commission and the council do not sanction the members of visegrad, shamefully led by austria, who are ganging up on schengen, closing borders, suffocating greece and now erecting walls with italy. this is not a refugee crisis, it is a european crisis of leadership and values. i'm ashamed of myself.
mr president, with this report, parliament is asserting real european sovereignty, bringing about a powerful, comprehensive and coordinated response to the refugee crisis. the priorities are clear: we need to address the root causes in our neighbourhood countries, we need to ensure the proper reception, redistribution and integration of refugees across europe, and we need to build up a real european border. but we need to have a clear vision about what the european border should be. this is not a wall. this is rather a border system ensuring control of movement but, most of all, decent, dignified reception and distribution of refugees in connection with the relocation centres and in connection with the whole system of resettlement in our neighbourhood countries. the next step, which is decisive, is to replace the dublin system with a real european system. we should be clear that all member states which want to benefit from this european border must make a contribution to this european asylum system.
mr president, commissioner, the situation of the dairy sector in my region, the azores, is dramatic. 60% of farms are technically bankrupt, leading to the despair of thousands of families and a region to disaster. this is unacceptable, especially since the responsibility of these producers in this crisis is nil. they've been paying to work for a long time, going into even more debt. this is a european crisis and, despite some mitigating measures that can be taken by the member states, the solution will have to be european to avoid the abuse of the negotiating power of the industries and the distribution, which in portugal apply penalties for increased production and ask for guarantees from producers, harming them even more, in a skinny version of milk quotas that only works in the negative and internally, causing even more asymmetries. those who produce less are punished, leaving others to produce without limits. i would like to ask you again to promote an ambitious european campaign to inform and encourage the consumption of milk, because it is being attacked without our giving the proper response, clearing up the myths associated with it and promoting its benefits. it advocates clear rules on the indication of origin and supports the certification of its composition. in the case of the azores, it is said that omega-3s, cla and others are present. question: do we want a globally competitive sector benefiting a few and privileging members of a select club of european producers, or do we want to be competitive by promoting the sustainable development of the centre and periphery of europe, the outermost regions and territories of the union?
the measures announced by the ec are practically useless to solve the problems of milk producers, relieving only those with the greatest production capacity. this market logic is intended to get rid of the many producers in less competitive regions with less capacity to adapt. the possibility of voluntary production reduction is not effective if the neighbour does not adopt it. the ec has to question the usefulness of the current legal framework. we must therefore go further, with truly european measures which lead to the regulation of supply and give traditional milk producers a bargaining power in relation to industry and distribution. many producers are not currently getting a fair price for their labour and investments, and their future is mortgaged, especially in small-scale economies such as the azores, where a modernised dairy sector is making a major effort to adapt, withstanding what it can. commissioner, this deserves to be honoured with policies to stabilise prices at a really compensatory level and not with the deregulated policy you have launched. that is not the europe to which i am committed, nor is it the europe to which the vast majority of members of this parliament are committed, as you have heard throughout the debate.
in writing. in 30 years, the face of our agriculture has changed significantly. thousands and thousands of farms have disappeared and agricultural employment is falling dramatically. at the same time, the level of agricultural indebtedness increased sharply, without correspondingly deteriorating profitability. today producers are working far below production costs and we are seeing another wave of closures. agricultural policies have merely sought to apply a quick dressing to a system which is very sick. the politicians responsible for the european institutions continue to believe in intensive agriculture capable of competing with brazilian, american or australian agriculture. you're wrong. the agricultural policy which the peoples of europe demand is one which puts the questions of social and territorial cohesion, food security and the environment above the laws of commerce and the logic of international competitiveness. we will then be able to have a model based on small and mediumsized farming, on quality, safety and trust, properly articulated around local and regional production and consumption circuits.
mr president, i would like to call parliament’s attention to the fact that a group of democracy activists has been convicted in angola for their criticism. they are in jail, and one of the young men, nuno dala, is dying because of a hunger strike. this parliament recently adopted a resolution on human rights in angola. i therefore call on you to request that president schulz contact the authorities of angola without delay to ensure that nuno dala does not die in prison and that all the prisoners are duly released. they were jailed on the decision of a kangaroo court. (applause)
‒ simplifying and clarifying european union law is a central objective of the eu to make it more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand, which will allow him/her new opportunities and the possibility to benefit from the specific rights attributed to him/her. the scattered nature of numerous provisions, which have been amended on several occasions, often substantially (which requires reading both the original act and the acts amending it), means that, for reasons of legal clarity and transparency, the rules must be codified. i support the walesa report which authorises the codification of regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 governing imports of products originating in certain acp countries, which has been amended nine times since 2007. the text thus becomes clearer and more readable without any substantive changes to its content.
‒ the report describes the codification and recasting of the market access regulation, which governs imports of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument provides duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-ldc acp countries, currently including 27 countries. since the purpose of codification is to ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation, i voted in favour of the proposal.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this temporary instrument provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries other than least developed countries (ldcs) in the period prior to the conclusion and application of the so-called 'economic partnership agreements' (epas), free trade agreements which follow the logic of the world trade organisation (wto). annex i to the market access regulation currently includes 27 countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the acp countries are able to continue their efforts in the immediate future, but they have a limited time horizon, since the proposal falls within the framework of the epas, which it accepts and defends. the epas mean the accentuation of existing inequalities, the serious effects of the deregulation of trade, the free movement of capital and investment, that is to say the deepening of the neoliberal, neo-colonial model which has been imposed, particularly in countries with weaker economies. since this is a codification (of an eminently technical nature), we abstain.
in writing. - this regulation applies to products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific group of states ('acp states') the arrangements provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements. in the absence of any substantive change to the existing one, i vote in favour.
the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, known as the 'market access regulation', which regulates imports of products originating in certain acp countries. i believe that eu legislation should be transparent, clear and simplified, and this proposal, which aims to codify the unchanged provisions of the previous acts, together with the duly identified amendments, follows this premise. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ this is a temporary instrument providing for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries other than least developed countries (ldcs) in the period prior to the conclusion and application of their world trade organisation (wto) compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before 1 october 2016. annex i to the market access regulation currently includes 27 countries. the limited positive effects that may result for the acp countries contrast with the consequences inherent in the epa framework, which accentuate existing inequalities, the serious effects of the deregulation of trade and the free movement of capital and investment, i.e. the deepening of the neoliberal model that has been imposed, particularly in countries with weaker economies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this parliament's resolution because it refers to a regulation negotiated in a lengthy way by the commission and the council, which allows for the establishment of economic partnership agreements (epas) with a number of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, which should be consistent with the obligations assumed in the world trade organisation (wto), support regional integration and promote the gradual integration of the acp economies into the rules-based world trade system, thereby promoting their sustainable development and contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in the acp states. i am confident that these partnership agreements are concluded on the assumption that, particularly in the fields of customs and trade policy, the special structural, social and economic situation of the outermost regions of the union will always be taken into account and that no damage will be caused to these regions by these agreements.
‒ it is only a codification and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called 'market access regulation', which governs imports of products originating in certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). this temporary instrument provides duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries other than the least developed countries (ldcs). the purpose of the codification exercise is to ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded that the commission proposal does not contain substantive amendments and merely codifies the unchanged provisions of the previous acts with those amendments.
the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, commonly known as the 'market access regulation', which governs imports of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in certain acp (africa, caribbean and pacific) countries, in the period prior to the conclusion and application of their world trade organisation (wto) compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before 1 october 2016. the technical purpose of the recast is to consolidate a piece of legislation, which has been amended several times, into a single legal text making it more accessible and easier to read for the user, while making some changes to it. i think it is important to simplify and make accessible all documents relating to european legislation, so i voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
‒ this temporary instrument provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries other than least developed countries (ldcs) in the period prior to the conclusion and application of their world trade organisation (wto) compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before 1 october 2016. annex i to the market access regulation currently includes 27 countries. the proposal, which admits that these measures may have a positive, albeit circumstantial, effect on the acp countries, is part of the eaps which have done nothing but deepen existing inequalities, the serious effects of deregulation of trade, the free movement of capital and investment, and the deepening of the neoliberal model which has been imposed, particularly in countries with weaker economies.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the common agricultural policy, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the acp states. i would stress my support for this exemption while the economic partnership agreements are being negotiated, in order to give some of the poorest countries in the world uninterrupted access to the eu market.
‒ in recent years, the european union has signed a number of fisheries cooperation agreements and protocols with third countries. agreements whereby the eu grants financial assistance and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a large population of species in the exclusive economic zone of these countries. denmark and greenland are the only two countries with specific agreements. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution of eur 17.8 million, of which eur 13.17 million is for access to the greenland eez, and specific support of eur 2.931 million to support the greenland fisheries policy and to increase the number of certain fish species.
‒ this report focuses on the new fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other. this agreement provides for access for eu member states' fleets to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland exclusive economic zone. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. however, it is noted that the indirect benefits for the territory of greenland have been limited (e.g. in terms of job creation and the involvement of local ports in the fisheries products cycle) which again runs counter to the stated objectives of the so-called 'partnership' agreements. the new protocol provides for a slight reduction in eu contributions compared to the current protocol. however, this reduction reflects the reduction in fishing quotas, which is not considered to be significant. the part devoted to sectoral cooperation has also increased. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. access for the eu member states' fleet to the greenland eez is vital for the eu fisheries sector. the greenland partnership agreement is the third most important economic agreement for the eu. the agreement strengthens cooperation between the european union and greenland with a view to the responsible and sustainable exploitation of greenland's fisheries resources. the economic importance for both parties is very relevant.
‒ the initial agreement on fishing activity between the european union, denmark and greenland dates back to 1985. virtually all of greenland's fish catch is exported to the european union, and this greenland partnership agreement is the third most important for the eu in economic terms. the fisheries partnership agreement aims to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland, and to promote a framework for collaboration in the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of resources in the greenland fishing zone. i am in favour of renewing the agreement, given the economic importance for both parties and the benefits of eu fishing activity in the region.
‒ this report focuses on the new fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other. this agreement provides for access for eu member states' fleets to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland exclusive economic zone. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. however, it is noted that the indirect benefits for the territory of greenland have been limited (e.g. in terms of job creation and the involvement of local ports in the fisheries products cycle) which again runs counter to the stated objectives of the so-called partnership agreements. the new protocol provides for a slight reduction in eu contributions compared to the current protocol. however, this reduction reflects the reduction in fishing quotas, which is not considered to be significant. the part devoted to sectoral cooperation has also increased. we voted in favour.
‒ in recent years, the eu has signed a number of fisheries agreements and protocols with third countries, providing technical and financial support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the exclusive economic zone of partner countries. this report concerns the agreement with the government of denmark and the government of greenland, now called the eu/greenland fpa, which was begun in 1985. this is a mixed agreement which gives the eu access to a wide range of fisheries resources in the greenland exclusive economic zone. i welcome the vote in favour of this report which is of great interest to both the eu and greenland, as it provides important economic benefits and helps to ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region.
‒ extension of the fisheries agreement (5 years from march 2015). it is a multi-species agreement and the third most important for the eu in terms of economic value. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution of eur 17 799 978 per year of duration. it promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources, fighting illegal fishing and supporting the local fisheries sector.
‒ this recommendation is aimed at approving the protocol on fishing opportunities between the european union and the government of denmark and the local government of greenland, as the initial fisheries agreement dates back to 1985. the greenland agreement is the third most important agreement for the union in terms of economic value. about 90% of greenland's exports are fishery products, with the vast majority going to the european union. this new fisheries partnership protocol with the government of denmark and the local government of greenland aims not only to strengthen the existing cooperation between the eu and greenland, but also to promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone. these are objectives in which both parties share a clear interest, since the renewal of this protocol provides for important economic benefits for both parties, which is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland is the third most important economically in the european union. the ex ante and ex post evaluations consider that the renewal of the agreement is in the interest of the european union and greenland. the financial added value created in the european union, amounting to eur 10 million, also contributed to this. the new agreement represents a burden for the european union of almost eur 18 million per year. of these, almost 3 million are allocated to support the local fisheries sector. i voted in favour of this agreement, but i will pay particular attention to its implementation. among other things, it is essential that the funds entered in the accounts are actually used as planned, including therefore the appropriate use of the funding for the fisheries sector.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. this agreement provides for access for eu member states' fleets to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland exclusive economic zone. however, it is noted that the indirect benefits for the territory of greenland have been limited (e.g. in terms of job creation and the involvement of local ports in the fisheries products cycle) which again runs counter to the stated objectives of the so-called partnership agreements. the new protocol provides for a slight reduction in eu contributions compared to the current protocol. however, this reduction reflects the reduction in fishing quotas, which is not considered to be significant. the part devoted to sectoral cooperation has also increased. we voted in favour.
‒ international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements whose designation clauses infringe union law by allowing third countries to reject, withdraw or suspend the licences or authorisations of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is substantially owned by a member state or its nationals and not effectively controlled by them. i support the koch report which is to approve a new agreement which, among other things, is to replace the traditional designation clauses with an eu designation clause allowing all carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
‒ the eu-macao agreement was signed on 23 november 2013. international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements which have included clauses in breach of union law. it was considered that such clauses discriminate against eu carriers which are established in the territory of one member state but are owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. there are other issues, such as competition, in relation to which compliance with union law should be ensured by amending or supplementing existing provisions in bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries. however, the commission has therefore negotiated this agreement, which replaces certain provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements by improving the final document. i voted in favour.
‒ relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. on the basis of decisions of the ecj, these agreements were found to be in breach of eu law as they provide for discriminatory situations against eu carriers which are established in the territory of one member state but are owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this (non-amendable) agreement replaces the provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreements are part of the ongoing merger monopoly in the eu aviation sector. they serve that purpose, as does all eu legislation for the sector. a sector dominated by five major groups: lufthansa, iberia-british airways and air france-klm, plus the two low-cost airlines ryanair and easyjet. the companies that are still out of this lot, especially if they are flag carriers like tap, and especially if they are still public, are to be dismantled, disappear in time, being absorbed their business, assets and routes by the giants of the sector. a path deeply damaging to national interests, which we reject and fight. we obviously voted against it.
‒ the european commission has negotiated the revision of the agreement replacing certain provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, making it compatible with article 49 tfeu. i cast my vote in favour.
‒ this aviation agreement on certain aspects of air services aims to replace certain provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. for the reasons set out above, i am in favour of this agreement.
‒ relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. on the basis of decisions of the ecj, these agreements were found to be in breach of eu law as they provide for discriminatory situations against eu carriers which are established in the territory of one member state but are owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this (non-amendable) agreement replaces the provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreements are part of the ongoing merger monopoly in the eu aviation sector. they serve that purpose, as does all eu legislation for the sector. a sector dominated by five major groups: lufthansa, iberia-british airways and air france-klm, plus the two low-cost airlines, ryanair and easyjet. the companies that are still out of this lot, especially if they are flag carriers like tap, and especially if they are still public, are to be dismantled, disappear in time, being absorbed their business, assets and routes by the giants of the sector. a path deeply damaging to national interests, which we reject and fight. we voted against it.
‒ international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. according to a 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union, the traditional designation clauses included in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states are in breach of union law. they allow third countries to refuse, withdraw or suspend the licences or authorisations of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is not substantially owned by that member state or its nationals and not effectively controlled by them. i have approved this report which is intended to replace certain provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. essentially, this agreement will allow all carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and will improve aspects such as safety, taxation and competition rules.
‒ the objective is to grant all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to links between the eu and third countries (in this case, the macao administrative region) and to bring bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries into line with union law.
‒ relations between the member states of the european union and third countries in the field of aviation have been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. however, according to a 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union, the traditional designation clauses included in the mentioned bilateral agreements infringe union law since third countries were allowed to reject, withdraw or suspend the licences or authorisations of a european air carrier which is established in the territory of a certain member state even though its effective control/ownership is exercised (a) by a company owned by nationals of a different member state. after the commission had negotiated this agreement, which replaces some provisions of the current 15 existing bilateral agreements on air services between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, i voted in favour of this recommendation as it will aim at compliance with article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this (non-amendable) agreement replaces the provisions of the current 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the agreements are part of the ongoing merger monopoly in the eu aviation sector. they serve that purpose, as does all eu legislation for the sector. a sector dominated by five major groups: lufthansa, iberia-british airways and air france-klm, plus the two low-cost airlines ryanair and easyjet. the companies that are still out of this lot, especially if they are flag carriers like tap, and especially if they are still public, are to be dismantled, disappear in time, being absorbed their business, assets and routes by the giants of the sector. this is a path which is deeply damaging to national interests, which we reject and fight. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate may not be less than 15%. transitional directive introducing a system of minimum rates justified by the fact that vat is still applied at the place of origin, rather than at the place of destination, to cross-border purchases and distance sales up to a certain value. in 2016, the commission will publish an action plan towards a definitive, simple, efficient and fraud-proof system for value added tax, adapted to the single market, which will set out the guidelines for future work and the main features of the definitive vat arrangements applicable to intra-eu trade, as well as the reforms envisaged to adapt the existing vat rules to a definitive system. i voted in favour.
in writing. the intention of setting a minimum threshold for the standard rate was to create a harmonised band up to a single vat rate. however, this option would undermine the fiscal sovereignty of the member states and their options for financing the community budget. directive 92/77/ec provided that from january 1993 until december 1996 the standard rate could not be lower than 15% in any member state. this provision has been extended five times and is now applicable until 31 december 2015. the european parliament now proposes that the extension be extended to the end of 2018 and not to 2017, as the european commission proposes, as it will allow for a more comprehensive debate on vat rates in the framework of the vat action plan. this is the only amendment tabled by the european parliament. the action plan was presented on 7 april and is intended to be the first step towards a single vat area in the eu. all member states now apply a standard rate of more than 15%. the application of a minimum standard rate of 15% gives member states a certain margin of manoeuvre, allowing them to reform vat to reduce the standard rate. we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/eec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to comply with a minimum standard rate. it is intended to maintain retroactively the application of a standard vat rate of 15% while at the same time proposing to extend the measures in force until 31 december 2018.
in writing. ‒ the vat directive provided that, until 31 december 2015, the standard rate was not lower than 15%. the establishment of a minimum threshold was intended to create a band with a maximum threshold which would be harmonised up to a single vat rate for the whole community area, while respecting the fiscal sovereignty of the member states and their options for financing the community budget. the european parliament now proposes that the extension be extended to the end of 2018 and not to 2017 as the ec proposes, as it will allow, they say, for a more exhaustive debate on vat rates in the framework of the vat action plan. we cannot dissociate this whole framework from the underlying intention to bring european harmonization to fiscal matters as well.
in writing. - i have given my approval to this report, the action plan of which will set out the main features of the definitive vat regime applicable to intra-eu trade which the commission intends to propose, as well as the reforms envisaged to adapt the existing rules on vat rates to a definitive regime characterised by the principle of the country of destination. the minimum vat rates are justified by the fact that they still apply at the place of origin, rather than at the destination, to cross-border purchases and distance sales up to a certain value. therefore, the application of a minimum standard rate in all member states as in the present case constitutes a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market and avoids situations of unfair tax competition. in these circumstances, and pending decisions on the final form of the definitive regime, the report agreed with the commission's proposal to retain retroactively the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and to propose the extension of the measures in force for a period of three years (until 31 december 2018) - a timeframe that ensures the necessary legal certainty for stakeholders and allows for a more comprehensive debate on vat rates in the framework of the future action plan.
in writing. ‒ directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax ('vat directive') provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate may not be lower than 15% in any member state. this provision on the minimum standard rate has been extended five times. the committee on economic and monetary affairs now proposes an extension until 31 december 2018 (one year longer than in the commission proposal).
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a legislative resolution on the amendment of directive 2006/112/ec as regards the duration of the obligation to respect a minimum standard rate for the common system of value added tax, which is set at 15% and will be in force for a period of three years (until 31/12/2018). the purpose of the legislation is tax harmonization, which is a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market and allows member states a certain margin of manoeuvre, in particular as regards the possibility of reforming vat in order to reduce the standard rate and widen the vat base. it will then be important to follow the commission's action plan on the definitive arrangements for intra-eu trade and the reforms towards a new vat rate system, which will apply the principle of taxation at the place of destination.
in writing. the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate may not be lower than 15%. the initial intention of establishing a minimum rate limit was to create a band with a maximum rate limit which would eventually harmonize to a single vat rate for the whole of the community. however, the establishment of this band for this purpose would undermine the fiscal sovereignty of the member states and their options for financing the community budget. it should also be noted that all member states now apply a standard rate of more than 15%, and the current application of a minimum standard rate of 15% also gives member states a certain margin of manoeuvre, allowing them to reform vat to reduce the standard rate, broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. the european parliament now proposes that the extension be extended to the end of 2018 and not to 2017, as the ec proposes, as it will allow for a more comprehensive debate on vat rates in the framework of the vat action plan. this is the only amendment tabled by the ep.
‒ within the framework of its mandate, europol may conclude agreements with third countries and other organisations to establish cooperation channels, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. in this context, it is for parliament, having regard to the agreement reached, to consent to its signature by europol. this is a given, a proof that all legal requirements have been met and that all safeguards for european citizens have been guaranteed. because of the history that unites us and the close relationship that we still maintain today, it is particularly important for portugal that cooperation between the federal republic of brazil and the union take this step further.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. a strategic agreement of this nature excludes the exchange of personal data. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime in areas such as aiding illegal immigration and human trafficking, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. moreover, the 2016 olympic games, like any other major sporting event, are expected to lead to an increase in criminal activity. i am in favour of the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil as it supports and intensifies the fight against organised crime and will contribute to greater international law enforcement cooperation.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. the information shared may involve specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. this exchange of information may involve the exchange of personal data, although the document states that 'the issue of data protection is not relevant' in a strategic agreement of this nature. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. we believe that europol should not override national police forces and their activities, and we support cooperation between the internal security structures of the various countries. since its creation, europol has been given powers by the eu that undermine the sovereignty of states. we are in favour of a model based on cooperation between national authorities and structures and not on the concentration of power in supranational structures, beyond the reach and scrutiny of national states and their peoples. for the record, our vote is against.
‒ i have voted in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol. it is extremely important to strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime in areas such as aiding illegal immigration and human trafficking, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. the exchange of information between europol and the brazilian authorities is essential. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations.
‒ this document concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. the information exchanged under this agreement includes expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. i support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil as it supports and promotes the fight against organised crime in areas such as support for illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cyber-related activities.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol. the information shared may involve specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. the exchange of information shall not, at the outset, involve the exchange of personal data. the most important political element is that europol, a supranational structure, is given the delegation of tasks which should be the exclusive responsibility of the states, outside the scope and any democratic control. like other eu agencies, europol is a structure created in the logic of federalisation of this process of capitalist integration, and which pursues its security policies. since its creation, the scope of its powers has been widening, undermining the sovereignty of states and the individual freedoms and guarantees of citizens. i therefore vote against.
‒ according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime in areas such as aiding illegal immigration and human trafficking, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. i have approved this report which establishes an agreement between europol and brazil on the call to fight organised crime, with the aim of contributing to greater international cooperation in the field of law enforcement. the information exchanged in this agreement will relate to expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ authorises europol to conclude the strategic cooperation agreement with brazil in order to strengthen the fight against organised crime and to increase the strengthening of international law enforcement cooperation.
‒ this report concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil, the information exchanged under this agreement being, inter alia, expertise, results of strategic analyses or information on crime prevention methods. the main purpose of this exchange will be the prevention and combating of organised crime. according to europol, brazil is playing an increasingly prominent role in the fight against organised crime in areas such as support for illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, as well as activities related to cybercrime. moreover, it is possible that the 2016 olympic games could lead to an increase in criminal activities and, as such, brazil has a particular strategic interest in the fight against terrorism. i consider it absolutely essential for international cooperation to ensure the application of existing international law and to intensify the fight against organised crime that these agreements be concluded between the european union and third states or international organisations, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ the strategic cooperation agreement between the federative republic of brazil and europol aims at exchanging information at various levels, including exchange of information on criminal investigation processes and methods of crime prevention, provision of advice, support in certain criminal investigations, general situation reports and results of strategic analyses. however, the agreement does not include provisions on the exchange of personal data. brazil is seen as a key partner in the fight against organized crime, especially as it hosts the 2016 olympics, which could see an increase in activities such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, illegal immigration and human trafficking. i voted in favour of the approval of the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol because it is essential to increase cooperation between the intelligence services of the parties involved in reporting, analysing, assessing and better responding to the new dimensions of organised crime, not only in europe but also in the world. this strategic cooperation agreement is therefore essential to detect threats that threaten the security of our societies.
‒ under this agreement, the information shared may involve specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. this exchange of information may involve the exchange of personal data, although the document states that 'the issue of data protection is not relevant' in a strategic agreement of this nature. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we believe that europol should not override national police forces and their activities, and we support cooperation between the internal security structures of the various countries. like other european union (eu) agencies, europol is a structure created to enforce the implementation of the path to federalisation. since its creation, the eu has given it powers that undermine the sovereignty of states. i therefore vote against.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the fight against terrorism, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests. this report will allow the agreement to cover the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, or confidential information, excluding personal data. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is another important step in strengthening the strategic relationship between brazil and the european union.
‒ the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, is based on the preliminary investigations concerning a serious road traffic accident on 23 september 2015 in which he was involved and there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the legal action is to prejudice the political activity of the member. moreover, the alleged infringement clearly has no connection with the office held by hermann winkler as a member of the european parliament. i therefore agree with the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report concerns a procedure for the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament. the member in question was involved in a car accident which caused him various injuries. the authorities in your country, germany, claim that you were driving under the influence of alcohol and that you must therefore answer to justice. this is not a matter which affects the member's activity in parliament, nor is it a politically motivated procedure. in these circumstances, as in other similar situations, we voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor general of leipzig (germany) has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, in the context of the initiation of an investigation procedure concerning an alleged offence. the request concerns preliminary investigations into a serious road traffic accident which occurred on 23 september 2015 and in which hermann winkler was involved. the alleged infringement clearly has no connection with the office held by hermann winkler as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report, because all the legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr hermann winkler. the evidence gathered indicates that the request for waiver of immunity stems from an alleged car accident. the german authorities understand that he was driving under the influence of alcohol and that as such he must answer to justice. the lifting of parliamentary immunity is essential to establish accountability. since the request has no direct bearing on the exercise of your functions, and is not a process based on political considerations and motivations, we voted in favour.
‒ the prosecutor general of leipzig, germany, has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, in the context of the opening of an investigation procedure concerning an alleged offence. the request concerns preliminary investigations into a serious road traffic accident which occurred on 23 september 2015 and in which hermann winkler was involved. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mr hermann winkler.
‒ the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or actions in the exercise of the duties of hermann winkler as a member of the european parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr hermann winkler, member of the european parliament. the request was made by the public prosecutor's office in leipzig (germany) and concerns a case relating to an alleged offence in which the mep was involved in a serious road traffic accident on 23 september 2015. now, as this is conduct allegedly carried out outside his mandate as a member of the european parliament and there is no reason to believe that there is any intention underlying the legal action to harm political activity, i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, subject to verification of the assumptions listed in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
‒ the alleged infringement giving rise to the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the member's duties as a member of the european parliament, and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is intended to prejudice the member's political activity. we voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity by express vote.
‒ i support the nicolai report because i believe that there is a need to create a legally binding international instrument under the united nations convention on the law of the sea for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction through modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management, ocean governance principles and fisheries. this new agreement should include instruments for the accountability of all the actors involved, without which it will not be possible to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. i believe that an exchange of good practice in this area should continue to exist under eu leadership.
‒ this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable use of marine resources. it stressed the need to establish a binding instrument under the responsibility of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the position of the working group which implemented the recommendations and of the united nations general assembly points to the negative impact that the rapid growth and expansion of maritime activities (notably industrial fishing, offshore drilling, transport, etc.) will have and have had on the marine environment. the need to deepen legislation at international level, in a context where 64% of the existing sea area is outside national jurisdictions, is thus considered fundamental. the report does, however, contain some evaluative references to eu policies, in particular the common fisheries policy, which we do not review. nor do we support a centralising approach, supporting the eu's positions and giving power to its institutions, in particular the european commission. this logic has favoured the large fishing industries but has negatively affected small-scale fishing, small-scale industries and fishing communities, with a negative impact on ecosystems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on fisheries aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, the united nations convention on the law of the sea. it is very important to discuss a new international instrument to regulate our seas. a new instrument to include fishing activities. it is not enough to deal with pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity. the eu must continue to lead in this area.
‒ it is estimated that 64% of the sea, including the high seas and the deep seabed, are areas outside the national jurisdiction of states regulated by international law. the current legal framework, established more than 30 years ago and based on the principle of freedom of the high seas, needs to be improved in order to successfully promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. it is important to stress the leading role, and frankly positive, played by the european union and the commission, given the preponderance of the eu fishing industry and market and the fact that european fisheries policy is geared towards sustainability. i agree with the rapporteur's position, in particular in recognising the importance of creating a legally binding international instrument which includes fishing activities in that instrument. if we are to achieve an effective and well-coordinated instrument in the field of marine biology, it will have to take account of fishing, since it is one of the most important activities carried out in the waters.
‒ this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable use of marine resources. it stressed the need to establish a binding instrument under the responsibility of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the position of the working group that implemented the recommendations and of the un general assembly points to the negative impact that the rapid growth and expansion of maritime activities (notably industrial fishing, offshore drilling, transport, etc.) will have and have had on the marine environment. the need to deepen legislation at international level, in a context where 64% of the existing sea area is outside national jurisdictions, is thus considered fundamental. the report does, however, contain some evaluative references to eu policies, in particular the common fisheries policy, which we do not review. nor do we support a centralising approach, supporting the eu's positions and giving power to its institutions, in particular the european commission. this logic has favoured the large fishing industries but has negatively affected small-scale fishing, small-scale industries and fishing communities, with a negative impact on ecosystems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because marine biodiversity is of particular importance in the outermost regions, such as the azores, which give europe an atlantic dimension. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing threatens marine biodiversity and jeopardises the preservation of ecosystems. this justifies increased cooperation, coordination, transparency and accountability between all the actors involved. the conservation of marine biodiversity and its sustainable use are directly linked to sustainable development in the long term. it is urgent to tackle plastic waste at sea and to fund relevant research in the field of the 'blue economy'. the positive role of eco-labelling in the seafood sector is highlighted, as it allows consumers to contribute to the sustainability of resources and the preservation of biodiversity. it is desirable that the un works with states to implement effectively existing rules and, where necessary, develop additional rules that can indirectly help to protect biodiversity on the high seas and improve social, safety and control conditions, such as the creation of a centralised instrument for the registration of fishing vessels, while avoiding an increase in the bureaucratic burden for fishermen.
‒ blue growth must be a priority. human activities at sea have multiplied in recent decades. the potential for growth and job creation is enormous and must take account of the ecological limits of the sea. fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the maritime economy and should be developed in a responsible manner, allowing for sustainable development and ecosystem balance.
‒ the un underlined the importance of protecting the world's waters following the 1992 united nations conference on environment and development in brazil - agenda 21. in 2012, in the document published after the un conference on sustainable development, the international community reaffirmed its determination to address environmental problems and the need to promote sustainable development. this shows that while the international community recognises the need for a global approach to managing pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity, there is a need to adapt plans and priorities locally to a rapidly and constantly developing world. as i agree with the rapporteur's emphasis on the inclusion of instruments for the accountability of all actors involved in the future agreement, these being important instruments for achieving real efficiency and progress, i voted in favour of this report. taking into account the needs of developing countries, capacity building and information sharing should be a priority in line with good practice and the eu should therefore continue to ensure a leading role in the development of this instrument as well as in its implementation process.
‒ as shadow rapporteur, i helped to ensure that this report addressed issues such as the need to develop consistent instruments for access to the benefits of exploiting genetic resources and enhancing the protection of marine biodiversity under new un initiatives. the document now adopted with my vote can help to provide political consistency in support of the implementation of a worldwide network of marine protected areas in the areas beyond national jurisdiction, a key option for the conservation of the oceans and their resources. this european report, like the others on fisheries adopted today, explicitly incorporates and embodies the work carried out by various experts at the level of the convention on biological diversity and, in particular, the work completed in the azores in which the criteria and rules for selecting the 'ecologically and biologically significant areas' ('ebsa') were established, which are recognised as the 'azores criteria'.
‒ the need to deepen legislation at international level, in a context where 64% of the existing sea area is outside national jurisdictions, is considered essential. this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and sustainable use of marine resources, emphasising the need to establish a binding instrument under the responsibility of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the report does, however, contain some evaluative references to eu policies, in particular the common fisheries policy, which we do not review. nor do we support a centralising approach, supporting the eu's positions and giving power to its institutions, in particular the european commission. this logic has favoured the large fishing industries but has negatively affected small-scale fishing, small-scale industries and fishing communities, with a negative impact on ecosystems.
‒ the report in question takes account of a number of amendments to the regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the amendments make the regulation clearer and easier to interpret.
‒ the purpose of this regulation is to lay down zootechnical and genealogical rules for the conservation and reproduction of animals and rules governing the conservation and reproduction of native or endangered breeds. the report improves on the original european commission proposal in several respects (extended scope, clarification of the legal framework, provisions on animal health and welfare). the issues of cloning are not dealt with in this regulation. the aim is to bring together in a single legal framework several important aspects such as the structuring of the livestock breeding sector; to establish rules for the management of stud books, breeding registers, for the breeding of animals and for performance testing and genetic evaluation. it lays down rules for intra-eu trade and imports from third countries, as well as for official controls. one of the negative aspects of this proposal, apart from the assumption that the meat production sector must be more competitive to allow european species and breeds to be exported, is the aspects of animal cloning, which have been left out, even as regards the pedigree register, not being recorded whether the progenitor is a cloned animal or whether the germ products are derived from a cloned animal.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. eu zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade within the eu and facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material, ensuring the maintenance of existing breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources in europe. however, it is not enough to want to encourage the export of the great european breeds; we must also take into account the local breeds, which are of enormous value to the different countries of the eu. these breeds are part of the genetic biodiversity of europe.
in writing. eu zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources. the basic principles of the zootechnical legislation have proved to be appropriate and adapted to technical progress in the field of animal production and are therefore set out in this proposal. however, since the current legislation is organised by species, the almost identical provisions have been simplified and drafted in more precise and coherent language in the form of a regulation in order to avoid barriers to trade resulting from national transposition. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the commission is therefore aware of the needs of the livestock sector and of the competent supervisory authorities. i support, as does the rapporteur, a harmonised approach to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, and to the official controls which need to be carried out on breeding programmes carried out by breeders' associations and animal production centres.
‒ the purpose of this regulation is to lay down zootechnical and genealogical rules for the conservation and reproduction of animals and rules governing the conservation and reproduction of native or endangered breeds. the regulation concentrates in a single legal framework several relevant matters: the structuring of the livestock breeding sector, rules for the management of breeding books or breeding registers for animal breeding and for performance testing and genetic evaluation. it also lays down rules for intra-eu trade and imports from third countries, and lays down rules for official controls and commission controls. as negative elements, the conditioning of competitiveness, as a prerequisite to facilitate the export of european species and breeds, the absence of references to animal cloning.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote in favour of this report because the production of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals occupies a strategic place in the union's agriculture in economic and social terms. this regulation should apply to breeding animals of those species and their germinal products where those animals or their offspring are intended to be entered as purebred breeding animals in a breeding book or registered as hybrid breeding pigs in a breeding register, in particular for the purpose of trade within the union internal market. the best way to promote the production of animals of those species is to encourage the use of purebred breeding animals or registered hybrid breeding pigs of high genetic quality. the commission has adopted decisions laying down species-specific criteria and has established a list of third country breeding bodies and the model breeding or zootechnical certificates for the entry into the union of breeding animals and their semen, ova and embryos. however, it should be noted that the demand for competitiveness in the livestock sector should not result in the disappearance of breeds whose characteristics are adapted to specific biophysical contexts.
‒ this legislative resolution of the european parliament concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the purpose of that resolution is to ensure a harmonised approach to trade in, importation and control of breeding animals and their germinal products by laying down rules applicable, inter alia, to the performance of official controls by breeders' associations and breeding operations to verify compliance by member states with zootechnical and genealogical rules and other official and administrative assistance activities. given that we are faced with a proposal which offers a regulation with a single legal framework in this area, with clear and well-defined rules, i see no objection to the adoption of this resolution and, in that respect, i voted in favour.
‒ animal husbandry legislation is one of the pillars of animal breeding processes in that it regulates the import of breeding animals and their genetic material. the conservation of genetic resources in europe is a concern that should underpin the regulatory arrangements in this area. the objective of competitiveness, which leads to the export of large european breeds as well as the import of other breeds, should not compromise the survival and reproduction of indigenous breeds, some of which have small populations and are part of the european genetic biodiversity.
‒ the purpose of this regulation is to lay down zootechnical and genealogical rules for the conservation and reproduction of animals and the rules governing the conservation and reproduction of native or endangered breeds. this regulation thus brings together in a single legal framework a number of important aspects, such as the structuring of the livestock breeding sector, the establishment of rules for the management of stud books, breeding registers, animal breeding and performance testing and genetic evaluation. it also lays down rules for intra-eu trade and imports from third countries, and lays down rules for official controls and commission controls. one of the negative aspects of this proposal, apart from the assumption that the meat production sector must be more competitive to allow european species and breeds to be exported, is the aspect of animal cloning being left out, even as regards the pedigree register, not being recorded whether the progenitor is a cloned animal or whether the germ products are derived from a cloned animal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the directive also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be made more efficient and for the use of renewable energy sources to be made more environmentally friendly. portugal's action on this issue is a credit to our country and can make a decisive contribution to countering the nationalist impulses which call into question the soundness of the adoption of a common european approach. as i regard the portuguese government's action positively, i intend to vote in favour of the amendment in question, contrary to the voting line of my political group.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the huge influx of people that eventually resulted in the so-called 'refugee crisis', the european union has been - late and slow - reacting rather than preventing or anticipating. much has been done, but much remains to be done. i have often said that this crisis has two distinct but complementary levels of action. on the one hand, we have to respond to the emergency, which is essentially humanitarian. on the other hand, we must tackle structural issues, such as the origin of the largest number of displaced persons since the second world war. this report presents a comprehensive vision, which lays out an accurate diagnosis, looks critically at the emergency response, presents a set of structural reforms such as the common european asylum system, or external borders and achieves something that the union desperately needs: solidarity and long-term vision. i support this report. now is the time to act.
‒ the migration crisis is a major political challenge in several eu member states. this report advocates a 'holistic approach' to migration and highlights the need to review the dublin iii regulation, which determines the member state responsible for handling a particular asylum application. the report urges member states to fulfil their obligations regarding the urgent resettlement of refugees and to provide technical and financial assistance to eu frontline countries with the aim of improving the functioning of reception centres. i voted in favour.
‒ the report follows a logic, only apparently paradoxical, of criticism to facilitate acceptance. it certainly contains some positive and critical proposals on aspects which are more widely reported in the media. however, the general sense, the political position it adopts, supports the political choices of the council, the european commission and the european parliament. there is not a single paragraph or line in this report denouncing the eu's responsibility for migration flows or clearly condemning the measures that have been implemented. the main thrust of the eu's migration policy in the face of this very serious humanitarian crisis is to deepen 'strong europe', by criminalising and expelling refugees and migrants, promoting a xenophobic and racist agenda, alongside other discriminatory, intolerant, authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. the decisions of the european council in march confirm an inhuman and cruel policy, in clear violation of international law. they choose to deepen the militarized response to the plight of those fleeing extreme poverty, hunger and military conflicts, locking them into the sinister circle of war that doubly condemns them. the agreement recently concluded is a good illustration of the eu's hypocrisy and the total absence of elementary values of respect for human and democratic rights. these are reasons for our vote against.
‒ the humanitarian emergency the european union has experienced in the context of the refugee crisis requires a coordinated and effective approach to migration. i reiterate that europe has, first of all, the obligation and the responsibility to ensure the security of its peoples. and then, because you're safe, you have an obligation to do good to others and to welcome refugees with humanity. i share the view that any holistic approach to migration must necessarily include measures aimed at dismantling the activities of criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings and smuggling of persons. i voted in favour.
‒ i express my concern at the incidents at the eu's borders, which are a consequence of this unprecedented migration crisis and which have highlighted the shortcomings of the current system for the reception of refugees and migrants. i argue that the current migrant and refugee crisis is largely due to the conflict in syria and other parts of the middle east, together with instability in the middle east and north africa region, and that the eu will have to play a leading role in putting an end to this situation. i agree with the rapporteurs that the current migrant and refugee crisis in the mediterranean can only be stopped by sustained political will and international cooperation and coordination in all eu institutions and member states, and that an international conference should be organised, on the initiative of the eu, under the auspices of the united nations, in order to respond to the current crisis at the humanitarian level. the vulnerability of women and children, especially unaccompanied children, as they are at risk of becoming victims of trafficking in human beings, and the importance of ensuring that this group receives special care, including psychological support and medical assistance, as well as adequate protection, should be highlighted.
‒ despite some criticism and even positive proposals in this extensive report, its underlying framework accepts and sanctions the criminal european migration policy imposed by the council and the measures that have been implemented, promoting a xenophobic and racist agenda, alongside other discriminatory, authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. the essential pillars of the eu's so-called migration policy in the face of this very serious humanitarian crisis are the deepening of strong europe, the closure of borders, the militarisation of the response to the plight of those fleeing extreme poverty, hunger and war, the criminalisation of refugees and migrants and the implementation of the return policy, in clear violation of international law, in particular since the so-called hotspots, which were transformed into genuine detention and deportation camps after the unthinkable agreement with turkey. throughout the document, there is not a single element denouncing the eu's responsibilities in this humanitarian drama resulting from its interventionist action, in conjunction with the usa and nato, on the african continent and in the middle east. i therefore vote against.
‒ this report stresses that solidarity must be the union's fundamental principle on migration and that a better european response to this scourge remains necessary. it said that great importance should be given to search and rescue operations and that there should be a clear distinction between people who are smuggled into the european union and those who are victims of trafficking. it also considered that resettlement was an important step towards granting safe and legal access to the union and stressed that further measures were needed to ensure that the common european asylum system (ceas) became truly uniform. the report also addresses issues such as the integration and participation of refugees in society, the preservation of family unity, the vulnerability of refugee children, the need for better data and labour exploitation, and considers that the safe return of persons who, following an individual assessment of their asylum application, are not considered eligible for protection in the union should be ensured within the framework of the proper application of the echr. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ this report aims to analyse the results of the specific work carried out by the european union in the mediterranean, in particular in several operations carried out in italy and tunisia, in the fields of security and rescue operations, migration, asylum and border management. the report highlights some of the main highlights of the evaluation, supporting the need for a comprehensive plan with medium- and long-term responses. the rapporteur makes a number of suggestions to help the situation in the mediterranean, such as: a permanent union response in the context of search and rescue operations, the implementation of measures to prevent the trafficking and labour exploitation of irregular migrants, or the introduction of integrated border management with a view to managing migration effectively while also ensuring a high level of internal security. solidarity and the fair and equitable sharing of responsibilities by the different member states should also be an integral part of this package of measures as an eu principle. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that these measures are not only necessary but also urgent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. however, i cannot help stressing that i am concerned by the indications from amnesty international on the alleged illegal detention of refugees and, as advocated by portugal, i believe that the european union should prepare itself to receive, and actually receive, as many war refugees as possible. it is a case of basic human rights and values and one with which we must be in solidarity. for these reasons i also voted in favour of amendments nos 34 and 35.
in writing. other i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a good contribution by the european parliament to a better european response to the refugee crisis. i have, however, departed from the s&d group's voting line on one specific point, because i thought it would be appropriate to commend here the attitude which the portuguese government has taken in being ready to take in refugees, even beyond the established quota. this was precisely the point made in an amendment proposed by the gue/ngl group, welcoming the portuguese government's willingness to proceed directly with the relocation of refugees from greece. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment. although i understand that the s&d group's voting stance does not reflect a judgment on portugal's attitude, but only the consequence of the overall commitment that it was possible to negotiate with the other political forces to make it possible to adopt this resolution, i wanted to express my support by my vote for the portuguese government in its exemplary attitude of solidarity in facing the current challenge of refugees arriving at the external borders of the union.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the council and to the european parliament. the main thrust of the eu's so-called migration policy in the face of this very serious humanitarian crisis is to deepen the "fortress europe" by criminalising and expelling refugees and migrants, promoting a xenophobic and racist agenda alongside other discriminatory, intolerant, authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. the recent agreement is a good example of the eu's hypocrisy and its total lack of basic values of respect for human and democratic rights when, beyond the commitment of 3 billion euros, it waves the welcome of turkey's accession to the european union as a counterpart to serving as a buffer state, holding back the flows of refugees on its territory and at its borders. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the metsola/kyenge report which proposes a holistic approach to migration in the eu. the report calls for the maintenance of permanent and effective search and rescue operations to avoid further loss of life in the mediterranean sea. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report also envisages the creation of humanitarian visas to allow the holder to travel directly to the country where he intends to seek asylum. the refugee crisis has shown that the eu's current approach to migration is not sustainable, and we need a complete overhaul to create a 21st century response system.
‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are of paramount importance for the functioning of the european decision-making process. the first allows decisions to be taken at the level closest to the electorate, the second ensures action appropriate to the aims pursued. subsidiarity in particular has seen its role strengthened by the lisbon treaty. national parliaments can now stop the legislative process for breach of this principle. the years 2012 and 2013 do not seem to have been very active in this area, but on two occasions the so-called 'yellow card' was used, forcing at least a reassessment of the proposal. i do not think it is time to review these procedures, since national parliaments are only now beginning to make use of them, but i welcome the adoption of the report as it shows a clear evolution and growing importance of these two principles.
‒ subsidiarity and proportionality are the eu's fundamental guiding principles and the principles by which the eu should be governed. the commission presented the monti ii proposal on which the national parliaments delivered 12 reasoned opinions, triggering for the first time the yellow card procedure which requires the institution which drafted the legislative act to carry out a review of the draft and to justify its decision to withdraw, amend or maintain the draft in question. the commission withdrew the proposal even though it considered that the principle of subsidiarity was safeguarded. i agree that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the starting point for policy-making and i think it is important that, at the beginning of the legislative process, it is assessed whether policy objectives can be achieved more effectively at european level than through national or regional measures.
‒ the tendency in the eu, at the legislative level, has been to strengthen eu action at the expense of national action, with the almost always fallacious argument that certain objectives are better achieved at eu level. what is being done is to subvert and reverse the principle of subsidiarity. national parliaments end up being of little importance and their opinions are disregarded. an example of this is the case of the european public prosecutor, which was given a yellow card by the parliaments, and the european commission nevertheless maintained the proposal. why ask the national parliaments if their opinion does not count? this report is in line with this trend. criticism is directed at the european commission and its actions, but on the other hand, there is talk of the difficulty of having different views at the level of national parliaments, as if everyone had to think the same way - already, the way the eu wants - over and above the differences between member states. the truth is that common policies within the eu always end up benefiting some at the expense of others. national parliaments become mere spectators in the eu legislative process. or just 'notaries' of directives they have to transpose. we voted against it.
‒ in the light of article 5 teu and protocol no 2 to the tfeu, the european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are of a general nature and bind the institutions in the exercise of the union's powers, except in areas of exclusive competence of the union where the principle of subsidiarity is not applicable. subsidiarity and proportionality are key eu guiding principles as essential tools for shaping policies for the benefit of eu citizens, and as tools for assessing the financial impact of legislation. i am pleased to note that the number of reasoned opinions as a percentage of the total number of communications has increased significantly. i agree with the rapporteur's regret that there are no common standards, which makes it more difficult to assess the basis on which the member states' parliaments act. i would stress the importance of impact assessments for decision-making during the legislative process and, in this context, the implementation of rigorous impact assessments, which verify compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, is essential in order to regain the confidence of citizens, for whom subsidiarity is often an essential aspect of the democratic process.
‒ these annual reports monitor the application of article 5 teu. the application of these principles is closely linked to the relationship between the european union and the authorities of the member states, the national parliaments. notwithstanding the wording of that article, practice shows the ongoing trend towards strengthening union action to the detriment of national or regional action, on the grounds that certain objectives are better achieved at union level. national parliaments are not only of little importance but are also disregarded. the european public prosecutor's office, for example, was given a yellow card by the parliaments but the commission eventually kept it. national parliaments cannot become mere spectators in the eu legislative process, which covers key areas of their daily lives and their collective future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. the imposition of common policies is aimed not only at the loss of sovereignty of the states but also at the benefit of some states to the detriment of others. we reject the attack on sovereignty and the attempt to empty the role and responsibilities of national parliaments, the structures which represent the citizens. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the verification of the principle of subsidiarity is very important for the collaboration between european, national and regional institutions. the principle of subsidiarity allows the union to act beyond its competence only where the objectives of the action in question cannot be attained by the member states, at central, regional or local level, but can rather, by reason of the scale or effects of the action, be better achieved at union level. the principle of proportionality requires that the content and form of union action should not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties. i therefore agree that policy-making must respect the principle of subsidiarity and have tangible european added value. i believe it is essential that the principle of subsidiarity be respected, taking into account the role of the social partners and ensuring their autonomy in accordance with the customs and traditions of the member states. breaches of the principle of subsidiarity may result in a loss of citizens' trust.
‒ the review of subsidiarity and proportionality by national parliaments analysed in this report is a key part of the application of these principles in the european legislative framework. subsidiarity and proportionality are an integral and guiding element of european policy-making, in order to establish the level of improvement that the political results of european union action can achieve in terms of strengthening dialogue and cooperation with national parliaments. what the 2012-13 reports on subsidiarity and proportionality have shown is a greater participation and involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process, demonstrating the greater effectiveness of the objectives at a macro level than through mere national or regional measures. like the rapporteur, i believe that it is essential to strengthen the political dialogue between the commission and the national parliaments, and to carry out credible impact assessments to help in the decision-making process during the legislative process, where the issues of subsidiarity and proportionality are most acute. in view of the foregoing, i have decided to support mr karim's report.
in writing. ‒ the subsidiarity principle seems to be a positive one. the problem is that the tendency is to say that the union's action should be strengthened, rather than national or regional action, on the grounds that certain objectives are better achieved at the level of the union. in the end, national parliaments are generally of little importance and their views are not taken into account. the european public prosecutor's office, for example, was given a yellow card by the parliaments but the commission ultimately upheld its proposal. so why ask the national parliaments if their opinion does not count? the emptying of the sovereignty of the representative structures of the citizens closest to them is negative. national parliaments become mere spectators in the eu legislative process (as demonstrated by the experience of the card mechanism, which is concerned with monitoring the principle of subsidiarity), which covers key areas of their daily lives and their collective future.
‒ the refit programme is the central element of the commission's new strategy, as it aims to consolidate the procedures for better lawmaking, simplify eu legislation and reduce administrative and/or regulatory burdens, striving for good governance on the basis of a fact-based policy-making process in which impact assessments and ex post evaluations play an important role, without replacing political decisions. i therefore agree that this spirit should permeate the culture of public administration at all levels of the european union, bearing in mind the excessive levels of bureaucracy throughout the union and the need to simplify legislation.
‒ refit the european commission's programme which, according to certain criteria defined by the commission itself, assesses the performance, quality, adequacy and effectiveness of regulation is an integral part of the better regulation programme, whose report we recently voted against. despite some positive aspects in this report, a federalist perspective prevails throughout the report, a certain view that there is no national legislation that is better than the eu's. we are therefore faced with a tendency to underestimate the importance of the legislative action and production of the states. in other words, it is a genuine reversal of the principle of subsidiarity. the core of this programme is the reduction of all legislation (in particular social and environmental legislation) which is considered to have burdens which undermine the competitiveness of enterprises (not only small but also large ones, especially large economic groups). this is capital, this is the politicians at its service: when they need too much legislation they make too much legislation (excess of procedural mechanisms which benefits, for example, cases of economic corruption); when they want less they do less (simplifying redundancy lawsuits). in any case, always with the aim of increasing profits and not improving people's lives.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): state of play and outlook. since the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making has been superseded by the current legislative framework created by the treaty of lisbon, a new commission strategy for better law-making is needed. the 'regulatory fitness and performance programme' (refit) is essential in the process of simplifying legislation and reducing the administrative burden of regulation on businesses, as well as in removing barriers to growth and job creation.
‒ the programme for the adequacy and effectiveness of regulation (refit) is the key element of the commission's new strategy for better regulation. it is considered essential in the process of simplifying legislation and reducing the administrative burden of regulation on businesses, as well as removing barriers to growth and job creation. the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making has been superseded by the current legislative framework created by the lisbon treaty and requires its renegotiation and updating. i believe that the aim and ambition of the better regulation package should be massively implemented in public administration at all levels of the european union, given the excessive levels of bureaucracy across the union and the need to simplify legislation in order to ensure good administration and procedures that benefit europe at all levels. i welcome the efforts to simplify the legislative process in general. i believe that we need legislation that is simpler, more accessible, more clearly drafted, less complex and more easily applied. refit cannot be a source of legal uncertainty. eu law should ensure predictability, legal certainty and transparency.
‒ refit is an integral part of the better regulation programme, whose report we voted against at the last plenary session. despite some positive elements, particularly as regards workers' rights, the document exacerbates a federalist and european integration perspective, in a logic in which community legislation is sold as always being superior and better than national legislation. the tendency to withdraw the initiative of action and legislation from the states is deepening. the project focuses on reducing all legislation that has imposed burdens on competitiveness, competition, the economy and economic operators. the logical sequence is that of the deepening of the attacks on workers' rights, moving towards the reduction of wages, the increase of working hours, the reduction of the burden of companies on social protection. the logic of designing laws that are subordinated to economic interests and in accordance with their needs, with a view to boosting the profits of large companies, in a vision of capitalist exploitation, is defended. this will produce excess legislation, to create mechanisms that benefit profit-making or economic corruption, or by default, simplifying judicial processes for dismissals of workers, for example. we voted against it.
‒ the 'programme for the adequacy and effectiveness of regulation (refit): current situation and prospects' is a key element of the commission's new strategy for 'better regulation' and aims to simplify eu legislation and reduce administrative and/or regulatory burdens, striving for good governance based on a fact-based policy-making process in which impact assessments and ex post evaluations play an important role, without replacing policy decisions, which is why i voted in favour. this report draws attention to the fact that the spirit of 'better regulation' should permeate the culture of public administration at all levels of the european union, bearing in mind excessive levels of bureaucracy. it also stressed that the commission should give priority to the development of certain measures and focus its attention on the quality of legislation and better implementation of existing legislation rather than on the number of legislative acts.
‒ this report aims to remove obstacles, simplify and improve the quality of legislation. this is intended to promote employment without lowering quality standards or increasing precarious employment. the rapporteur has succeeded in ensuring social dialogue and environmental, social and health standards in the commitments.
‒ this report, on a proposal for a european parliament resolution on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit), aims to take stock of the current state of play of refit itself, while also identifying new actions and more ambitious targets under the better regulation agenda. in this respect, i believe that it is imperative to have less red tape and less and better european legislation, which meets the legitimate expectations of citizens and stakeholders, and also ensures that public policy objectives, such as standards relating to consumers, the environment, social protection, health and safety, are not jeopardised. this own-initiative report also contains other pending legislative suggestions aimed at contributing to greater simplification, transparency and enhanced public dialogue and consultation in decision-making. these are the principles i subscribe to and which i consider essential for the formulation of serious, credible and responsible european policies, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
‒ i consider that the 'traffic light' system for supplementary nutrition labelling, which is used voluntarily by some countries, can lead to discriminatory practices for certain products, without any justification or consequence in terms of improving the nutritional balance of consumers' diets. for this reason, the legal feasibility of using this particular system should be examined. as regards nutrition claims on products, in accordance with the rules laid down by the legal framework, i believe that they allow access to a food choice based on scientifically based characteristics.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. in other words, there is a tendency to underestimate the importance of the legislative action and production of the states. even if we put the concern for workers' rights here, which is fair, the core of this project is the reduction of all legislation that has burdens on competitiveness, on competition, on the economy and on economic operators.
‒ improving the regulation of the single market should be a priority as good legislation contributes to the good of citizens, boosting competitiveness, job creation and growth, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection and stimulating the european economy. i support the van bossuyt report because i believe that it sets out a set of guidelines of the utmost importance for the proper functioning of the market, whether by including specific indicators to measure the success of legislation not only in the initial impact assessment but throughout the policy-making cycle, or by requiring transparency and accessibility to information. i would stress the need to rely on digital platforms to improve the functioning of the single market, such as single points of sale and consumer service portals and networks. the responsibility for improving regulation cannot be confined to the institutions in brussels, but shared with the member states, national parliaments and other local bodies, in a framework of efficiency and respect for subsidiarity.
‒ improving the regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of each of the eu institutions, which consists of observing the guiding principle of subsidiarity when deciding what action to take, deciding the best way to act, whether regulation is necessary, and finally ensuring that measures and obligations are simple and effectively applied in order to achieve agreed strategic objectives. improving the regulation of the single market is not synonymous with eliminating all regulation, but rather with providing a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business in europe. i voted yes.
‒ the deepening of the eu single market has accentuated the dismantling of the instruments of sovereign regulation of the economies at the disposal of the member states. barriers to the movement of goods, services and capital have been removed, with privatisation and liberalisation of strategic sectors and public services being imposed. the harmonization of legislation in favour of the large economic and financial groups has been stepped up. the report argues for the need to 'improve' regulation at the level of the single market, arguing that existing regulation is 'excessive' and 'complex'. but more than the quantity, what matters is the quality, the meaning and the objectives of this 'regulation'. the report states that 'better' and 'lighter' regulation could provide a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business. again, "improvement" and "relief" for whom? we know what you mean. for the apostles of the single market, this 'improvement' is synonymous with regulation which serves, essentially, to protect the economic interests of large companies, deregulating in terms of workers' and social rights and reducing the levels of demand in terms of environmental protection, safety, consumer protection. that is, deregulation in the name of the market and the increase of profits and wealth for the great powers and the great economic groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report 'towards better regulation of the single market'. improving the regulation of the single market should be a priority and a shared responsibility of the eu institutions. good legislation contributes to the good of citizens and should help boost competitiveness, job creation and growth, as well as the progress of smes, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection, allowing the european economy to be stimulated rather than hampered.
‒ the single market is a key instrument for boosting economic growth and job creation in the union. improving the regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of each of the eu institutions, which consists of observing the guiding principle of subsidiarity when deciding what action to take, deciding the best course of action if regulation is needed and finally ensuring that measures and obligations are simple and effectively applied in order to achieve agreed strategic objectives. better regulation does not mean the elimination of all regulation, but rather the provision of a regulatory framework which is favourable to employment and business in europe. i am in favour of a single market which does not impede production, innovation and trade and which is a tool for stimulating growth in europe. i agree with the rapporteur that good legislation works for the good of citizens and should help to boost competitiveness, job creation and growth, as well as the progress of smes, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection and stimulating the european economy.
‒ the deepening of the eu single market has accentuated the dismantling of the instruments of sovereign regulation of the economies available to member states. barriers to the movement of goods, services and capital have been removed, with privatisation and liberalisation of strategic sectors and public services being imposed. the harmonization of legislation has been stepped up. the report argues for the need to 'improve' regulation at the level of the single market, arguing that the 'excess' and 'complexity' of existing regulation, which result in 'overburdening' and 'obstructions' to production, innovation and trade, 'condition' the potential and benefits of a single market. it states that 'better' and 'lighter' regulation can provide a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business, contributing to long-term growth and, consequently, to the prosperity of citizens. we know what you mean. for the apostles of the single market, this 'improvement' is synonymous with regulation which serves, essentially, to protect the economic interests of large companies, deregulating in terms of workers' and social rights and reducing the levels of demand in terms of environmental protection, safety, consumer protection. that is, deregulation in the name of the market and the increase of profits and wealth for the great powers and the great economic groups. we voted against it.
‒ the single market is an essential instrument for boosting economic growth and job creation in the union. the report states that the future strategy must be to improve regulation, as good legislation contributes to the good of citizens and should help boost competitiveness, job creation, growth and progress of smes, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection and stimulating the european economy rather than hindering it. it therefore states that the institutions should jointly endeavour to ensure that the principle of proportionality is reflected in the drafting of the relevant legislation. finally, it considered that single market legislation should take account of the new opportunities offered by the digital revolution, be fully compatible with the online dimension of public administration and that the role of the single market should be highlighted as a distinct pillar of the european semester, supported by an annual report. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the single market is, as has been shown, one of the greatest successes of the european community. increased competition, the free movement of people and goods and the deregulation of protectionist rules have led to a significant increase in european gdp and the creation of some 3 million jobs. as recently argued by the european socialist group, the contribution of european legislation towards the establishment of a genuine single market - which has been improving consumer access to a wider range of products, with lower prices and more stringent quality controls - has given rise to the need to complete and improve the legislative framework and the conditions for market access in order to eliminate the still existing situations which do not allow the full potential of the european market to be exploited. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the internal market for telecommunications services. in other words, there is a tendency to underestimate the importance of the legislative action and production of the states. even if we put the concern for workers' rights here, which is fair, the core of this project is the reduction of all legislation that has burdens on competitiveness, on competition, on the economy and on economic operators.
‒ i support the report by mr draguici, which emphasises in a positive way the role that education and schooling can and should play in strengthening european citizenship. we cannot, on the one hand, conceive of citizenship in a legal sense and call for citizens to participate and then fail to provide the necessary information to make that participation meaningful. and it is not worth expressing sadness at the high abstention rates in the european parliament elections because the investment has to be made earlier. i agree with the european dimension of education and support the concrete proposals both in the promotion of successful initiatives by the union (such as erasmus) and at member state level (such as the setting of curricula and study plans).
‒ according to an opinion poll, 44% of europeans do not understand how the eu works and many feel that their voice is not heard in the european union. according to one report, in 2013 there was already some eu content in most member states at all levels of education, except in four where no mention was found in primary education. i agree that this situation can be remedied if citizens are better informed and encouraged to become involved and to participate actively in the project of european unification. to this end, it is essential to reinforce the european dimension in education in order to overcome euroscepticism and prepare citizens to live and work in an increasingly complex and globalised world.
‒ in short, this report advocates the dissemination of pro-eu propaganda in schools. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. in other words, the lack of trust of citizens in the eu does not lie in the policies it promotes and their devastating consequences on people's daily lives, especially workers and the people, but in the fact that people have limited knowledge about the eu and how it works. this is why we advocate a specific education, guided and shaped by 'eu values', which will change the (of course) wrong perception of the eu that citizens have. the imposition of single-mindedness from an early age is thus defended. concepts such as the integral training of the individual are thrown out of the way, they will not stimulate creativity and critical thinking, when what matters is "preparing for the needs of the labour market", "vocational training". the report advocates the harmonization of the knowledge structure and curricular content, ignoring the specificities of the education systems of each country. you have no idea how to take this report. we obviously voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'learning about the eu in school'. according to a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 44% of eu citizens feel that they have a poor understanding of how the eu works and 52% of europeans feel that their voice is not heard in the eu. there is clearly a lack of knowledge about the eu. it makes perfect sense, therefore, to teach the eu in schools, so that the common values of the union and european identity are kept in mind. it is very important to strengthen the european dimension in education in order to overcome euroscepticism.
‒ according to a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 44% of eu citizens feel that they have a poor understanding of how the eu works and 52% of europeans feel that their voice is not heard in the eu. it is important to bear in mind that insufficient knowledge of the eu can contribute to the perception of a democratic deficit and lead to widespread euroscepticism in the member states. education must have a european dimension, with the aim of helping its citizens to understand and reconnect with the eu. the eu should be more visible and well integrated in teaching materials and extracurricular activities, given its impact on citizens' daily lives, and the inclusion of eu-related content can substantially enhance school curricula and pupils' personal development and growth. i support the key role of the member states in implementing the european dimension of education systems and all types of eu-related curricula at all levels of education, including vocational education and training.
the report calls for the formation of consciences, distorting reality and painting in the brightest colours the alleged values of the capitalist integration project that is the european union, an unavoidable condition for changing the 'wrong' perception of the majority of citizens about the eu. how's that? the european union must deepen the harmonization of educational programmes, which are biased and single-minded; it must promote the acceptance of the neoliberal policies imposed on the member states; it must develop policies based on a logic of privatisation and under-funding of education, an insufficient preschool network, the centralisation of schools and the promotion of a school and an education serving the interests of the market; it must prevent the integral training of the individual to enhance his creativity and the raising of individual and collective consciousness. the dynamics of progressive transformation of societies have always been through the affirmation of the secular state in schools. the measures that are needed today will be the necessary affirmation in schools of the sovereignty of states and peoples to decide their own course and project of national development, free from the shackles of the policies of impoverishment and austerity that the eu has imposed. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ learning about the eu in school can help to develop a sense of european citizenship from an early age, to make european values known and thus to combat the growing euroscepticism that is felt in all member states.
‒ this report, which i voted in favour of, stresses that eu-related topics should be more visible and well integrated into teaching materials and extracurricular activities and believes that the inclusion of explicitly eu-related content can substantially enhance school curricula and pupils' personal development and growth. it also stresses that knowledge and understanding of the history and common values of the eu and its member states are essential for mutual understanding, peaceful coexistence, tolerance and solidarity, as well as for understanding the fundamental principles of the european union, and therefore deserved my positive vote. in this way, these measures will enable pupils to reflect critically on the eu, on governance, on decision-making processes and on how they themselves and their democratic participation influence the member state to which they belong. the document also calls for an intercultural approach to education policies that provides for the genuine integration of immigrant pupils in schools, based on mutual knowledge of different cultures and the development of shared common values.
in writing. ‒ at this historic juncture, the european union is facing unprecedented challenges and has been in the throes of a serious economic and financial crisis in recent years. the social, economic and political effects of this crisis call into question the union's common institutions and values, including the notion of european identity. in this context, intensifying the study and dialogue on the european union in schools, associations or public spaces is crucial to restoring citizens' confidence, their sense of belonging to this union of peoples and states and, consequently, to promoting the process of european construction. it is therefore essential to improve the european dimension in school education, giving citizens better tools to live and work in a union of 28 member states that is embedded in a very complex and globalised world. although the member states have exclusive competence, we note that the situation regarding the inclusion of eu content in national school curricula is unfortunately far from uniform and we therefore consider that specific measures are needed in this area, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this report assumes that the fact that people have limited knowledge of the eu and how it works is the key factor in making people feel distant and increasingly alienated from the 'european political project' and more eurosceptic and 'perceiving a democratic deficit in eu decision-making processes'. this report does not, of course, condemn but rather calls for education and training to be subordinated to the implementation of the 2020 strategy, advocating the harmonisation of the structure of knowledge and even of content, ignoring the specificities of the education system of each country, in a trend towards vocational training rather than integrated 'education'. for people to believe in the 'european project', it is first and foremost necessary that the project be for the realisation of rights, for cooperation and solidarity between countries; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
‒ i support the report by mr maragall, who calls for the strengthening of mobility mechanisms in the field of vocational education and training (vet). i agree with the emphasis on the need to respond to the training needs of young people who want to enter the labour market earlier or seek training with more vocational characteristics and the need to contribute to reducing school drop-out rates. i also agree that these trainees should have access to european mobility programmes without discrimination, that actions should be developed to reduce cultural barriers and strengthen language skills, and that particular attention should be paid to areas where youth unemployment is most pronounced.
‒ the various pre-existing eu mobility programmes have been merged into one, erasmus+. the effects of this measure are still to be assessed in depth. the overall aim of the report is to call on the european commission and the member states to develop efforts in favour of vocational education and training within all existing mobility tools. the report identifies a number of challenges that eu mobility programmes must address, highlighting the difficulties of access. while erasmus is seen as a successful eu mobility programme, the truth is that mobility rates are low. this is mainly because the grants awarded are few and do not cover tuition, food, housing, study materials, transportation and other expenses. only a restricted social group has access to mobility. the report is not without contradictions. education is defended as a right that should be guaranteed to all people. but 'education for the market' is favoured over 'education for life'. we support many of the criticisms made in the report, in particular the lack of access to education for the most disadvantaged population. we agree to actions aimed at removing barriers and providing greater support for the learning of other languages.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vet. erasmus as a mobility programme for learning and personal development has shown its important potential for promoting employment, social cohesion and skills development. it is essential that the funding of learning mobility programmes such as erasmus+ is a priority of the european union, within the political agenda for promoting education and youth.
‒ we follow up on several criticisms, notably the elitisation of education, or the inaccessibility of mobility programmes for students in vocational education and training. the integration of several education, training and youth work mobility programmes into erasmus+ has resulted in a reduction in jobs and redundancies in portugal, despite the concentration of competences in one agency. the promotion of student mobility through this programme has not only fallen short of imposing an unacceptable and unavoidable discrimination of access, which is evident with the low rates of mobility. not only has access to the programme been mainly at the higher education level, but it is also clear that it is not accessible to everyone. without the financial backing to cover the entire period outside the country of origin (tickets, accommodation, food), only an elite with greater financial resources benefits from this mobility. the report promotes the view of education and training in a mercantilist logic of market satisfaction and subscribes to the logic that mobility should serve to solve the problems of youth unemployment by linking mobility with employability. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote in favour of this report as it calls on the eu to remove all socioeconomic constraints that prevent equal access for all to vocational education and training opportunities, including mobility. in addition, the report stresses that the outcomes of education systems can be important in reducing early school leaving and equipping students with transversal skills that will help them match their qualifications with the demands of the labour market. it should also be stressed that learning and training mobility is key to responding to social and cultural challenges, with a view to maximising the opportunities for young people to develop their own plans of action in society. this report states that there is a need to have a flexible, diversified and adapted range of mobility options for training available to cover people from immigration or economically disadvantaged families, participants from the outermost regions, people with disabilities and people with special needs. the report also calls for a review of the multiannual financial framework on the basis of a prior assessment of the effectiveness of measures to combat unemployment and for the funding of the least effective measures to be cut.
‒ all measures aimed at increasing the mobility of education and vocational training in order to contribute to growth and job creation in the eu are positive and welcome.
in writing. the introduction of erasmus+ marked an important step towards greater mobility in european higher education. the remaining differences in the academic/curricular perspective, the organisation and management of educational establishments and the relations between the education system and the business world have been eliminated by the introduction of a system that allows for the standardisation of costs and other operational difficulties. this is a programme for young people which i consider extremely important because it offers the greatest possible range of academic and professional opportunities, while at the same time contributing to the sociological, civic and even personal construction of an effective european identity. continuing to identify the main challenges, promoting a personalised approach to education, reducing school drop-out rates and at the same time ensuring equal access to erasmus mobility actions are some of the factors that led me to support this report. the promotion of language skills, the capacity to act and adapt to new situations, entrepreneurship, self-determination, cultural immersion in a different country, the exchange of experiences and the resulting tolerance are some of the examples that result from the implementation of programmes such as this, and their promotion should therefore be extended.
‒ the report 'erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vocational education and training a lifelong learning approach' reinforces the european union's commitment to supporting lifelong learning and vocational education and training by providing opportunities to acquire new skills, increase employability, increase cultural awareness and increase foreign language skills. the report highlights the role of society in promoting the visibility of vocational education and training programmes, with a view to breaking down the barriers that hinder access to the programme for people who are discriminated against. the european network of incubators and the exchange of knowledge between schools, universities and businesses should also be given priority. the commission is requested to provide updated statistics on the programme with a view to assessing its impact on youth employability and its mid-term review. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to promote youth mobility and to increase access to education and vocational training, especially for disadvantaged groups and people with special needs.
in writing. ‒ we support many of the criticisms made in the report, including the lack of access to education for the most disadvantaged population, that access for students in vocational education and training to mobility programmes should be encouraged and facilitated, in particular through actions aimed at removing cultural barriers, and that there should be greater support for learning other languages. all disadvantaged groups and people with special needs should be effectively included in information and preparation sessions. despite stating that mobility should not become the only solution envisaged for the unacceptable dimensions of youth unemployment in the eu, the link between mobility and employability is still mentioned in one or two paragraphs.
‒ i voted in favour of the maragall report on erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vocational education and training which proposes a lifelong learning approach with a particular focus on the learning of young people and trainees. erasmus+ aims to build on the previous leonardo mobility programme and invites the european commission and the member states to take concrete measures to improve the social and economic impact of mobility with the aim of achieving a highly skilled workforce through inclusive education policies. i believe that such initiatives, which focus on university mobility and vocational training within the european union, can contribute to growth and job creation in the european area.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the future of the european union. the report points out the insufficient parliamentary scrutiny (both of the european parliament and of the national parliaments) and the lack of transparency and information to citizens of many processes linked to these institutions, especially for civil society, smes, consumer representatives and social partners. i welcome the approach of eu representation in some of these institutions (and not just through the national representation of some of its member states) and i share the view that the under-representation of the least developed countries contributes to the inequalities and funding of the poorest countries not being properly considered.
‒ as a consequence of the free movement of capital, the stability of the financial system depends on the ability to develop and implement, at the supranational level, standards and norms of conduct. the necessary change of scale must not lead to a dilution of responsibilities to the detriment of democracy. in particular, national parliaments and the european parliament cannot be reduced to mere approving assemblies. finally, the eu and the euro area must be able to defend their strategic interests. the eu has the means to meet this challenge. it has created a global internal market for financial services, with recognised financial centres, a systemic risk committee (esrb) and three authorities whose existence has rapidly become more solid. given the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs, i believe that global multilateral cooperation needs to be re-designed, giving greater importance to the eu and the euro area.
the report proposes a single representation of the european union and the eurozone in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions, at the expense of the sovereign presence of the member states in these spaces. one voice they proclaim. what voice is this not said nor necessary would be: the european parliament is the voice of big finance capital and the european powers at its service. it is not the latter that should be deprived of their voice in defence of their interests. it would be the peripheral countries, such as portugal, that would be deprived of this voice and subjected even more to dictates and interests contrary to their needs and the will of their people. we have, of course, rejected this report. we have tabled a minority report with a different view. an alternative vision, respectful of national sovereignty, based on cooperation and solidarity between member states, which defends the need for international regulation of the financial system, based on joint efforts of cooperation, which rejects the submission of political power to economic power and the transfer of political power to bodies outside the control and democratic scrutiny of the people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. i share the rapporteur's view that there is a need for greater policy coherence and coordination between the institutions at world level by strengthening the principles of democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and integrity.
‒ the increasing interdependence of the world economies makes the adoption of concerted, more globalised strategies imperative. the european union must have a jointly-designed action, with the objectives and values of the eu treaties, so that we can speak with one voice in the international institutions and bodies. i believe that the european parliament, as the democratic body representing the european citizens, and the parliaments of the member states, cannot be limited to giving its consent. they must play a decisive role in the decision-making process, which is to be more active and comprehensive. with the onset of the economic and financial crisis in 2008, it became clear that there is an extraordinary lack of economic and financial governance worldwide and that numerous macroeconomic issues require greater coordination. i agree with the rapporteur that all the parties concerned should have as a common objective the development of a comprehensive framework providing financial stability and ensuring coherence between the global and local levels.
the report is based on the idea of deepening the power of supranational bodies, in a logic of centralisation and of subjugation of political power to economic power, which we strongly oppose. we reject without reservation this eu, which is committed to cooperation and solidarity between member states, attacking national sovereignty. we are strongly opposed to the idea that peer review allows for greater accountability of citizens than the traditional model of formal democratic accountability, and to the establishment of a single eu representation in the international financial institutions, thus taking away the member states' unique capacity to intervene. greater democratic legitimacy and accountability are not achieved by means of concentration and increased supranational taxation. it is up to member states to be represented in international fora and regulatory cooperation at global level should be based on solidarity between countries, not on the defence of major economic and financial interests.
‒ this report aims to contribute to an answer by analysing the eu's action in a dozen political and/or technical organisations and takes as its starting point three findings: transparency, accountability and eu/euro area representation. the report found that, given the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, it is illusory to frame the financial sector without changing the scale of public intervention. the eu has therefore a number of means to meet this challenge: the commission has, for example, created a global internal market in financial services, which the capital markets union will soon be giving new life, and it has recognised financial centres, a committee to prevent systemic risks and three authorities whose existence has become more solid. given the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs, the report found that there is a need to reframe overall multilateral cooperation, giving greater importance to the eu and the euro area. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ the national parliaments and the european parliament cannot be reduced to mere approving assemblies. while it is crucial to have an independent assessment of the private and political interests involved, dialogue between experts and elected representatives should be re-launched. the eu and the euro area must be able to defend their strategic interests. in many organizations, europe is represented in a disorderly way, to say the least. this is all the more regrettable when we consider the importance of the challenges not only to financial stability but above all to growth and employment. the european union must make a stronger and more effective contribution to the establishment of a more balanced multilateral cooperation in economic and financial matters. the report also calls for increased international regulatory cooperation, transparency, accountability and democratisation with strong involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. - i support this own-initiative report by mrs goulard on a proposal for a european parliament resolution on the role of the european union in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. this includes answering questions such as 'who decides', 'who sets the rules for the financial sector' and 'what is the role of national parliaments and governments in this context'. i agree with the rapporteur's tripartite approach to the main areas where the european union should act: transparency, accountability and representation of the european union and the euro area. it is essential that the european union plays a more active and prominent role in the process of global economic governance, in particular through membership of international bodies, and it is also really important that fundamental institutional reforms are initiated which will enable the european union to achieve a strong voice and a coherent representation ('enhanced and more effective coordination', to use the rapporteur's words) in the various international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work should be approved by the council. we reject without reservation this eu, which is committed to cooperation and solidarity between member states as well as to their national sovereignty, the idea that peer review allows for greater accountability of citizens than the traditional model of formal democratic accountability, based on the concept of 'agent and committee', as well as the establishment of a single representation that speaks with one voice for all eu countries in the framework of international financial institutions. we strongly believe that greater democratic legitimacy and accountability will not be achieved by increasing supranational impositions. member states should not be without their own representation in international forums and regulatory cooperation at global level should be based on solidarity between countries, not on the defence of major economic and financial interests.
‒ this report focuses on small fishing communities, small-scale coastal fishing and the factors for their protection and development in a highly industrialised context. the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulation and legislation, financing instruments and technology and know-how transfer, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social emancipation of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the respect of rights. in general, the report's approach and proposals are in line with our positions, and we therefore voted in favour. on this occasion, however, we must recall the report adopted in the previous legislature on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing, for which we were responsible, containing recommendations to improve the situation of this specific segment of the fishing fleet, which is highly prevalent in portugal. for the most part, these recommendations remain valid, but unfortunately they have not been removed from the paper. the new cfp has also degraded an already difficult and precarious situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on innovation and diversification of small-scale fisheries in fisheries-dependent regions. we must make every effort to protect small-scale fishing, especially in the outermost regions. this report advocates coastal fishing, which guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. it is also important to stress that tourism and fishing should not be separated. both are important to local economies.
in writing. ‒ it is our duty, especially when we know the reality well, to safeguard the interests and defend the specificities of regions which suffer from certain constraints, such as the outermost regions. different treatment is needed to deal with what is different, and in the case of fisheries and fishing or sea-related activities, we need to find different solutions. the adoption of this report defends small-scale coastal fishing and enhances the value of the professions linked to maritime activity, that is, all those who have their source of income in fishing. we have succeeded in ensuring that the outermost regions receive a different treatment in the future of european fisheries. the emphasis is on creating new types of support, within the framework of existing european funding, so that more and new areas can be eligible for funding. as rapporteur for the epp, i am glad to see the report adopted by a large majority.
‒ this report focuses on small fishing communities, small-scale coastal fishing and the factors for their protection and development in a highly industrialised context. the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulation and legislation, financing instruments and technology and know-how transfer, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social emancipation of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the respect of rights. in general, the report's approach and proposals are in line with our positions, and we therefore voted in favour. on this occasion, however, we cannot but recall the report adopted in the previous legislature on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing, for which we were responsible, containing recommendations to improve the situation of this specific segment of the fishing fleet, which is highly prevalent in portugal. for the most part, these recommendations remain valid, but unfortunately they have not been removed from the paper. the new cfp has also degraded an already difficult and precarious situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it has a huge impact on the azores. the document makes recommendations to adapt the definition of small-scale coastal fishing to the characteristics of the regions, as there is no uniformity in this concept, and it also recognises that there are island communities which traditionally depend on fishing for their livelihood, and that greater regionalisation should be pursued in order to have a fisheries policy closer to the sector. aspects such as the progressive increase in the quotas allocated to artisanal fishermen, the strengthening of the role of fishing communities in local development, the priority given to small-scale coastal fishing in the allocation of funding and the simplification of procedures were also reasons for my vote in favour. on the other hand, and since we are witnessing a decline in employment and profitability in this sector, a certain marginalisation of fisheries in developing regions and opportunities to benefit from the new possibilities, i also argue that it is necessary to continue diversification in this sector, deepening the relationship between local communities and universities/technology centres, in order to create new business incubators that will potentially generate business ideas in this sector.
‒ coastal fishing is particularly important in the eu as it provides a high level of employment and is socially and environmentally sustainable. for most coastal and island areas, traditional coastal fishing is a way of life and an important source of livelihood. some coastal and island regions are facing significant economic decline, which is reflected in depopulation and the exodus of their inhabitants, who are seeking opportunities in sectors offering better prospects of employment and education. in addition, some coastal fishing areas are located close to economically developed and tourist areas, but are unable to achieve adequate economic growth. areas dependent on coastal fishing need specific measures and support to grow and develop. the emff may support investments in diversification and contribute positively to fishermen's incomes through the development of complementary activities, namely investments in vessels, restaurants, environmental services in the fisheries sector, cultural and educational activities in the fisheries sector, fisheries tourism, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which concerns a european parliament resolution on innovation and the diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. it is not new that this is a sector lacking in deep reforms, taking into account the socioeconomic characteristics and specificities of the different regions. this is a subject which i have followed with some interest, because my country is 97% sea and has the largest eez in europe (if the united nations approves of portuguese claims in the context of the extension of the eez - exclusive economic zone). however, looking back at the report, it is clear that fishing communities are largely limited in their sphere of action by the strict rules inherent in the common fisheries policy. in this respect, i am in favour of the adoption of instruments aimed at giving small-scale coastal fishing in the island communities dependent on it greater opportunities, a progressive increase in the quotas allocated to artisanal fishermen, support for projects to develop coastal, island and outermost regions and the promotion of nautical tourism.
‒ it is important to emphasise that this report is a defence of fisheries in the remotest areas, that is, the outermost regions of europe. in fact, there are particular features in the azores that must be defended, ensuring the protection of smaller fleets and the implementation of genuine alternative blue economy projects. the result should be a convergence of interests in areas such as diversification of the use of the sea, the promotion of the dignity and the improvement of the training of fishermen and the exploitation of biological resources. i would also like to stress the possibility, mentioned in the report, of extending the action of the european maritime and fisheries fund to cover schemes similar to the posei programme. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report and i call on the european commission to implement the proposals contained in it.
‒ the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulations and legislation, financing instruments and the transfer of technology and know-how, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social empowerment of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the enforcement of rights. on this occasion, however, we cannot but recall the report adopted in the previous legislature on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing, for which we were responsible, containing recommendations to improve the situation of this specific segment of the fishing fleet, which is highly prevalent in portugal. for the most part, these recommendations remain valid, but unfortunately they have not been removed from the paper. however, and because, in general, the report is in line with our positions in its approaches and proposals, we voted in favour.
‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) includes a chapter on its external dimension, including the establishment of minimum conditions for the establishment of fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries, along with commitments to increase cooperation and consistency of measures implemented within the framework of regional fisheries management organisations; an explicit reference to common standards within and outside eu waters; and the use of scientific information in decision-making. while we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing sector; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fishing for their livelihood, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fishing to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements. the new eu cfp has evolved significantly. if properly implemented, it will certainly contribute to improving the eu's long-sea fishing standards. the inclusion of a chapter on the external dimension in the recent reform of the cfp regulation, in which sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps) and fisheries under gfcf are formally regulated for the first time, is noteworthy. the eu must ensure transparency, while seeking to promote the protection of ecosystems and the maintenance of fish stocks. this is the only way to generate income for fishermen in different types of fishing. it should be noted that the eu is now the world's largest market for fishery products and has one of the largest fleets in terms of catch capacity.
‒ the inclusion of a chapter on the external dimension in the reform of the cfp regulation, in which sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps) and fisheries under the rfmos are formally regulated for the first time, is noteworthy. i support the importance of promoting the protection of ecosystems and of maintaining fish stocks above levels capable of generating a maximum sustainable yield, since the existence of more abundant stocks is an important requirement to enable the development of coastal fishing communities in third countries. the eu is now the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets flying its flag and is considered one of the world's three major powers in terms of catch capacity. the eu's influence in the world of fisheries, as a flag and trading state, allows it to influence other actors, both coastal and distant, to improve their own fisheries policies. i believe that the eu should use this influence to improve fisheries management and transparency standards.
‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) includes a chapter on its external dimension, including the establishment of minimum conditions for the establishment of fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries, along with commitments to increase cooperation and consistency of measures implemented within the framework of regional fisheries management organisations; an explicit reference to common standards within and outside eu waters; and the use of scientific information in decision-making. although we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing industry; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries, based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fisheries for their livelihoods, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fisheries to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it advocates the inclusion of the outermost regions in the external dimension of the common fisheries policy and also in the framework of bilateral agreements signed with third countries, in order to ensure that local fisheries in these regions benefit. at the same time, this basic cfp regulation includes a chapter devoted to its external dimension, providing for minimum conditions to be respected in the framework of bilateral agreements, which i have always advocated. the eu should promote the harmonisation of fishing conditions with a view to creating favourable conditions for fishermen, promoting sustainable and responsible fishing. only regionalised fisheries management can ensure sustainable and equitable exploitation, and further studies on the state of stocks and habitat and, where necessary, greater protection of deep-sea species and habitats are essential. aspects such as improving the transparency of fisheries agreements and activities, defending sustainability and improving the supply of fish to ensure food security were also reasons for my approval of this report.
‒ this report relates to the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, i.e. the promotion of sustainable fisheries in third countries, while also ensuring that imported fishery products are produced to acceptable labour standards and human rights.
‒ three decades after the start of the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), maritime competition is now more intense. the union therefore needs to promote sustainable fisheries and the best strategy for achieving this objective is to use its influence on the international scene to improve management standards and transparency in the management of fisheries resources. the union, as the world's largest market for fishery products, also has one of the largest fleets for catching them. the marketing of these products is subject to very strict measures in terms of traceability and the verification of the size/hygiene of the catch, as well as in the fight against iuu fishing. these measures aim to ensure competitive advantages, taking into account environmental and social sustainability and the protection of consumer rights, as well as strict application of international regulations. given the significant progress of the new cfp, with notable success in the iuu regulation, which has led to improvements in legislation on fishing activities across the globe, i supported this report, which aims to promote measures for the continuous improvement of fisheries management globally.
in writing. ‒ with regard to this report, for which i was the shadow rapporteur, i would like to stress the contribution it will make to more responsible and consistent action by the european union in international waters. the european commission's analysis and implementation of the recommendations set out here will have implications for the way the union relates to the countries with which it has fisheries partnerships, in order to increase the transparency of the relationship, ensuring benefits and broader environmental sustainability. this is an important document and it only fails to recognise that marine biodiversity is under pressure, with fisheries among the most immediate threats. fortunately, on the positive side, there are many aspects to highlight, and these are what led me to vote in favour of this document. among these, i think it is particularly important to mention a single register for vessels sailing in international waters. we must put an end to the constant changing of flags, a practice so widely used by rogue shipowners.
‒ although we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing industry; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries, based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fishing for their livelihood, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fishing to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
mr president, i am asking you to curb this member who is insulting a major religion, islam, saying something which absolutely does not represent that religion. it is not my religion; i have none.
madam president, first of all i would naturally like to express my solidarity with all the victims of the brussels attacks and, of course, strongly condemn these attacks. that said, i think it is essential that we integrate the question of europe's internal security and safety into the competence of the european institutions. and that is why it is essential to strengthen european instruments. this is of course not just about strengthening the institutions - and i am thinking of europol, i am thinking of perhaps some secret services, i am thinking of better information exchange - but it is also about the adoption of the pnr and it is curious that the argument put forward by mrs sophie in 't veld is an argument that is not useful, because she herself says that the pnr adds nothing. why is she afraid of the pnr? if she says we don't have those instruments anymore, what's the point of doing the pnr? not one. so if we already have it, we're exactly as we were. i don't understand why you're so obsessed with the pnr. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i would like to reinforce this idea: if what mrs in 't veld and her group understand is that the pnr adds nothing, why do they reject the pnr? so if it creates no problems, if it adds nothing, it's because it's not going to bring more problems, and so, this is the point, we can't accept this argument. so this is the point. if it doesn't make any impression on you then please accept it, vote it out once and for all, with us.
the city of brussels was the latest victim of terrorism on european soil. i regret to say that i once again express my condolences to the victims of this barbarity, this one of 22 march. freedom of movement has always been linked to the security of our citizens, and since 2001 the fight against terrorism has been particularly determined. of course, we will never achieve 100% security, but something must surely change. i have long been urging that the instruments already in place be used more effectively. sis ii, which will soon see its capacity improved by the inclusion of fingerprints, is a paradigm in this respect. europol, whose mandate is about to be changed, is another example. we need more cooperation and information sharing between member states. it is clear that we are faced with new realities, for which we must find new solutions. and we must do so without fearing a strengthening of european powers, but without forgetting that internal security is first and foremost a competence of the member states. we must be ruthless with these criminals and ensure the safety of our citizens. and we can start doing that now.
madam president, the panama papers revelations require, first of all, public recognition of the extraordinary work of the international consortium of investigative journalists and also of the whistleblowers who provide them with the data. it is worth recalling that antoine deltour, one of the luxleaks whistleblowers, is to be tried this month for breach of professional and commercial secrecy, and so, by joining and associating myself with the european commission, the commissioner, in this commendation, i would also like to see the european protection statute for legal aid for these citizens, as recommended in taxe, accelerated on its list. a second note on the size of this iceberg of panama papers: it requires the european union to move definitively towards a clear definition of what tax havens are, with objective and transparent criteria and a list of sanctions for those who operate in them. i look to the european commission, not to criticise it, but to praise and encourage it, but i would like to have a commitment from the council, if possible even stronger, that the blockage that the council has made to the tax agenda is now reduced to zero in the face of the scandal of the european union's apathy in tax matters. thank you very much.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. if the panama papers are a drop in the bucket, the commission's proposals are baby steps. i would like to take this opportunity to talk about ourselves and the underlying problem, which is the very existence of tax havens. tax havens are something that nobody likes, but nobody really wants to do anything to stop them, and if you can talk to multinationals and the rich about tax optimization, you can talk to workers and small and mediumsized businesses about tax evasion. there is no political will in the european union, because there are tax havens in the european union, there are countries which are tax havens, the netherlands, luxembourg, belgium and finally madeira itself, and therefore the european union must have political will because it is the world's largest holder of tax havens, and that is really the fundamental problem, mr moscovici. the maintenance of tax havens in the european union sends a very clear message to citizens: those who evade taxes with 100 euros are criminals, those who evade with 100 million euros are entrepreneurs. that is certainly not a matter of fiscal justice.
this tax scandal, one more, is a wake-up call to a reality that is not new. we've had luxleaks before, swissleaks, offshore leaks and now we have the panama papers. this reality cannot be dissociated from the emergence of the neoliberal paradigm and the deregulation of the financial system that has come to dominate since the 1980s. it cannot be dissociated from the wave of privatisations of public financial institutions created in the post-war period. this scandal is not an accident of the road. this is a structural phenomenon which requires fundamental measures, such as the abolition of tax havens, and it also attacks the very heart of the system, which is the sprawling network of banks and financial institutions. we are counting on them to take firm measures to combat tax fraud and evasion, by putting obstacles in the way of the transfer of profits and capital to offshore regions. we impose transparency rules on all processes, including free access to all tax information. they don't count on us to fake what's being done to keep it the same.
the panama papers: another scandal on a global scale which calls on the european union to combat financial crime schemes which facilitate tax evasion, corruption and all types of organised crime, including terrorism. it is imperative and urgent to confiscate the proceeds and punish the politicians, banks, consultants and lawyers who use, and if they do use, offshore secrecy to capture governments, steal from citizens and from democracy. the european commission has proposed that multinational companies should publish country-by-country accounts, but in a general way, they should be published for all the countries in which they operate, not just in europe. it should also require the public register of beneficial owners of companies, foundations and trusts to be made available online to all citizens in the announced revision of the anti-money laundering directive. but make no mistake, without tax harmonization in the european union, tax dumping will continue, with several member states acting as genuine tax havens and ruining others. that is what happens in the netherlands in relation to my country.
the european parliament has been urging the european commission and the european council to strengthen legislative initiatives and coordination on the ground to combat tax evasion and money laundering, which, in addition to being actions against fairness and justice, contribute to increasing asymmetries in competitiveness and growth capacity within the european union and in the world. the taxe committee has recently adopted a robust set of recommendations to deal with phenomena such as those identified in the luxembourg and panama leaks. in may 2015, the european parliament approved the revision of the anti-money laundering directive, which requires that central registers of beneficial ownership of companies, foundations, trusts and other entities be set up and maintained in all member states. recent revelations show that the measures in place are not effective. the adopted directive and taxe recommendations must be implemented as a matter of urgency. new measures will be needed after the investigation of what has happened, but first of all it is important to put into practice the measures already designed, with a great sense of urgency.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome the european commission's proposal to require multinational companies to publicly report on key aspects of their activities in various countries. my words are sincere, they are of commendation, they are of encouragement. that said, there are in fact two elements where progress was still possible and would be welcome. it is not reasonable, despite the explanations you have kindly given us, that all multinationals with a turnover of less than 750 million should be excluded from this report. we end up covering only 10 to 15% of multinationals and the information requested is absolutely commonplace for any company operating in more than one country. as you mentioned, the banking industry is also following this practice and doing well with it. the second question concerns the exclusion from this report of transactions outside the union, which may be presented in an aggregated form, i.e. without identifying the country where the transaction takes place. the obligation to report transactions carried out in tax havens, once they have been defined, is a step in the right direction. however, this possibility of reporting, in an aggregated form, transactions in jurisdictions that are not in the european union and are not tax havens, can lead to an unintended effect, which is to off-locate the concentration of profit to jurisdictions that have an option, a particularly advantageous tax offer and this was not what we wanted for europe. so you can count on the support of this parliament and you can count on it if you want to improve the proposal you have just put before us. congratulations on what you've done and let's get on with it.
madam president, commissioner mogherini, the european union can only regain its influence in the world if it can establish itself as a power capable of preventing, deterring and protecting. the european union must assume its role as a guarantor of regional and global peace and stability, but to do so it must commit itself to a common defence and security policy adapted to new risks and new dangers. in the face of current tragedies such as the civil war in syria and the disintegration of libya, the actions of daesh and terrorism, the conflicts in the sahel and the horn of africa, the european union must assume its responsibilities and cannot shift them to other actors. the european union is best placed, by virtue of the principles and values on which it is founded, to ensure a common security and defence policy properly linked to policies on external affairs, humanitarian aid and development. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this implies, of course, greater cooperation with other regional and international organisations, such as the arab league and the african union.
vice-president of the council/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, first of all, you were asking about the political objective. both in my introductory words but also hearing the debate tonight, it is quite clear what it is: it is to engage with an interlocutor, coming out from the common position to encourage and accompany a process that is happening in cuba – inside the country and with the outside world, starting from the united states, but also with others in the region and beyond – to try to accompany this process in the best possible way. here the european union has a special role to play. we are not in competition with the americans. the united states has a different kind of history of relations with cuba that we do not have. it has a different kind of geography that probably, in perspective, makes relations with the island potentially huge. we are far away, but our history is much more solid. we have a people-to-people exchange with the cuban people – as europeans – that is and always has been in place, even during decades of difficult times. so i believe that, whether it is for the work that we can do on trade or the work that we can do on the development of different forms of small and medium enterprises, cooperatives or small economic steps of change, the role of the european union – because of the structure of our society, our economy and our social system – can be of great help in the transition, the transformation, the changes and the process of reforms that cuba is potentially entering into. this is an open debate in cuba. if i am not wrong, the party congress is taking place in a few weeks. we need to have a respectful stand. you mentioned that we make reference to the fact that we have a process of non—interference. this is the basis of our relationship with all countries in the world. we do not interfere in internal processes, but we have our consistent, coherent, strong and principled positions on many different issues. there are issues where we see space for cooperation and mutual benefit. there are issues where we know very well that we are very distant in our positions, but there are fields where we can work together, accompanying a process that cuba is starting and making sure that there can be a european – whether businesses, churches, ngos, tourists, entrepreneurs – common framework that can be beneficial for europeans and for cubans. i mentioned the work of the small and medium enterprises and cooperatives. the field of telecommunications is huge and potentially very beneficial. our experts are working in cuba, advising the different ministries on the different sectors of reform – even very technical kind of work – because there is a certain level of understanding and trust between our people that has never been interrupted throughout history. again, with student exchanges or people-to-people contact, i can see a lot of benefits. so we do have a fundamental role as the european union. regarding something that you mentioned, namely the blockade: our position has always been very clear. i have stated it again, publicly and in our meetings, both in cuba and with our american friends. we consider this policy as counterproductive, as it is also affecting european economic interests in a serious way. we know very well that the administration in the united states stands exactly where we do, but congress does not, so we need to see how the americans will work on that. human rights will stay crucial and central in our dialogue, and let me stress that the european union and cuba have a human rights dialogue. we have already had the first round of it and we are going to have a second round in cuba in early june or at the end of may in havana. we are fixing the date. this is something the americans do not have. this is precisely because we have a certain level of confidence in each other, and respect. we are engaging in this dialogue, as well as in other dialogues, with a constructive approach. it is frank, because we know very well that there are issues where we do not agree, but with the idea that engaging is always better than not talking. lastly, regarding the role of the parliament: this process is just a starting point. we have initialled the agreement. this means that we have finalised the negotiations. we have no open points on our table. i would also thank our delegation in cuba, the negotiating team – which has been working in an excellent way – and also the cuban negotiating team. obviously they had their own position to defend, but they engaged very constructively. i can tell you that seeing experienced officials and diplomats, at the moment when we were signalling the agreement, moved after years of negotiations was something quite special, even for someone who has been working on diplomacy for so many years. your role will be key when we come to the ratification of the agreement. we have signalled it. we have to sign it, which means, as you know, going through translation into all our languages and all the internal processes, and then we will come to ratification for this parliament. at that time i will come back to you and ask for swift ratification, because even the overcoming of the common position is linked, as we will proceed in parallel to this advancement process. so a lot of work has been done, but still part of the political work has to be done, and i count on your engagement and support in those steps when they come.
this moment confirms the sovereign and free decision of the cuban people to assert their achievements and their just aspiration to build a progressive society, free from the oppressive shackles of the embargo which they have heroically resisted for 50 years. a blockade which constitutes an unacceptable violation of human rights and international law and which must be brought to an end. the resistance, persistence and courage of the cuban people have enabled this country, despite the economic constraints imposed on it by the blockade, to achieve progress that does not exist in other countries, such as the right to education or the right to health. the agreement which the eu and cuba ratified just a month ago is a step which could help to break the blockade. it was claimed by the eu as a milestone towards the end of the 1996 common position, which is based on a discriminatory and outdated policy that calls for its repeal without further delay. declarations requiring the council to take a position on their formal repeal. the dialogue with cuba must be conducted without any form of interference and intervention, and must be based on full respect for the sovereignty of that country and its people and their inalienable right to decide their own future.
on behalf of the s&d group. i am grateful to mrs sandra kalniete for her receptivity to the joint work underlying this report. it is not easy to make less of a 'christmas tree' of this european parliament's contribution to the overall strategy that the union is seeking to develop in the face of the humanitarian, economic, political and security challenges it faces, originating from state and non-state actors both within and beyond the common borders. a credible political union requires europeans to take full responsibility for collective security and defence in the neighbourhood and globally, while never losing sight of their interests and founding values and principles. the union needs to strengthen its strategic autonomy in defence capabilities, while not continuing to under-utilize the potential of the cfsp and the csdp to coherently articulate internal and external policies and ensure civil and military resilience in the collective response. only then will it not fail the citizens, its partners themselves, in the framework of nato, the united nations, the eu-africa partnership and others, as mrs mogherini has also stressed. mutualisation and sharing of military resources, joint research and development projects strengthening the industrial and technological base of european defence, including in cbrn security and cyber defence, are crucial to avoid duplication and failures and to ensure economies of scale and interoperability of systems. combating terrorism and other forms of organised crime is a priority that no member state can pursue alone: it requires sharing of capabilities in the areas of internal and external security, in particular intelligence, police and justice. it imposes coherence and consistency on external policies and actions. from ukraine to the mediterranean, we see a lack of cohesion and solidarity, with results that shame us and discredit the union. defending european citizens, principles and interests can only be achieved through a political union that promotes human security, based on global governance rules - as mrs mogherini has just stressed again - anchored in international law, human rights and the rule of law. we support the efforts of the high representative, who is also vice-president of the commission, to provide strategic leadership and coherence in pursuing common interests. we need the union more than ever for our security and for global peace. we reject the europe of rivalries and nationalism, which can only mean war.
madam president, we should recognise that the deal with turkey is at best a provisional, fragile and controversial solution. what we really need are european instruments to regain control of the situation, of our territory and of our standards, and this means very clear priorities, which are also on the table due to recent commission proposals. the first one is to ensure that we really provide european asylum according to european standards. the second is that we adapt our cities to avoid ghettos, for reasons of social cohesion but also to prevent security risks. finally, we need to build up a real european border system. this is not a line, this is not a wall, this is a border network which should enable our system of relocation and resettlement to work properly, managed by european authorities. what is at stake is no less than european sovereignty. we should not be afraid of using these words. this is a powerful concept, and most citizens do understand that we need to move to this new phase of building the means to have sovereignty over our resources, our territory and our standards. i believe this should be envisaged also as a big investment, so let us prepare for this new stage.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, what i wanted to make clear here is that we must stand with human rights in this refugee crisis. and to be on the side of human rights is, of course, to solve the refugee problem, namely by welcoming into the european union... the european union must show this face of solidarity, and this is absolutely essential. and so i understand that this deal with turkey is just... it is not a good deal, it is the possible deal, and it is just a way of buying time to solve this problem more effectively. i should also like to say that, just as i rightly criticise the portuguese government in this parliament for its economic, financial, budgetary and fiscal policy, which is deplorable and is leading the country into a very bad situation, i also commend the portuguese government for its policy on refugees. we in portugal have already shown that we are not only prepared to take in the initial 4 000 but that we can also take in 10 000 refugees. and we are in a position to receive 1,250 already, the prime minister announced this week. i think that here in portugal, portuguese civil society and the portuguese government are setting a good example. i would like other states to follow our example, and i think that would make it easier to solve this crisis.
mr president of the council, commissioner, the council has approved, through the agreement with turkey and also through the reaffirmation of the priorities of the common security and defence policy, an emergency solution to mitigate the refugee crisis. but it also approved the relaunch of investment, the continuation of structural policies and the implementation of responsible budgetary policies. in june, it also committed itself to giving a new impetus to the single market, the digital single market and the capital markets union. so, mr president, there is only one question that makes sense: what are the member states waiting for to start implementing what they themselves have approved? enough of the talk. we need good examples. portugal is not waiting, it is doing. you're taking twice the number of refugees you've been asked for. it is promoting a national reform plan to address its problems of potential, of growth. we need action, we need good examples to multiply.
in writing. the last european council has once again demonstrated its inability to respond to the crisis, which continues, in a lasting way. the pretext of drawing up the so-called national reform programmes and stability programmes is simply parroting the old recipe of 'structural reforms'. translation: more labour deregulation; low wages; promotion of monopolistic concentration in strategic sectors; privatisation of public services; dismantling of social functions of the states, such as social security. they don't know or want to choose another path. and there you have the results: economic stagnation, instability in the banking and financial sector and latent deflation. nor does the ecb's continuous liquidity injection into the financial system change this picture. money created by banks doesn't make it into the real economy and is diverted to speculation, fueling new bubbles, like the bond bubble. this is the visible result, to date, of mr draghi's measures. mr draghi the former goldman sachs executive who had the audacity, the impudence and the lack of attempt to go to portugal to speak about what the portuguese should or should not do, even meddling in aspects of the portuguese political regime. a deplorable affront to national sovereignty and the constitution of the portuguese republic which cannot go unchallenged!
in writing.– the eu-turkey deal to outsource the refugee problem is a disgrace: the eu is violating human rights and international law by detaining asylum seekers and forcibly deporting them, without even the possibility to ask for asylum, via a kafkaesque skype system, which is not operational. also the agreement is not even working: it is not stopping people from coming over from turkey, libya or russia and certainly is not stopping the trafficking mafias: actually it is giving them more opportunities for their sordid business. idomeni will remain an ugly scar in our faces as europeans. opening safe and legal routes and channels for asylum seekers and migrants’ applications, as canada has done, should have been the alternative – but the council refused to even consider that. presidents tusk and juncker – you failed to act last summer against your epp pal viktor orbán when he defiantly refused to participate in the relocation distribution scheme agreed by the council. no wonder now you are failing again to sanction the visegrad member states, led by austria and commanded by germany, who have bombed schengen by closing borders with greece and who are about to raise fences with italy. by failing to act, you are sinking europe!
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million. sweden has submitted a proposal to reintegrate workers made redundant in five companies in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. the application concerns the dismissal of 500 workers and provides for the mobilisation of eur 1 793 710.
‒ this request relates to sweden's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 647 workers in training and job search measures with eur 1.8 million. the european commission recognises that 'new and emerging asian truck manufacturers ... have gained access to new technologies from joint ventures with established market leaders in the west'. in 2014, the production of eu commercial vehicles increased, thanks only to the light commercial vehicle segment, while the production of trucks decreased. exports decreased (-10%) while imports increased (10%). the commission notes that the chinese exporting producers did not provide any evidence that the measures in force were in breach of the undertaking. however, in sweden, the volvo group has cut its workforce by 4,000 in four years. capitalism is unchangeable. in sweden too, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates and lowest skill levels that are most affected by the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies. the report is weak, but we cannot fail to follow the concrete objective which justifies it.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to sweden, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in the economic activity sector classified under nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), mainly in the nuts level 2 region of northern norrland (se33), where 500 of the 647 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the egf are expected to participate in the measures.
‒ the union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. i am voting in favour of this report, which says that 40 000 new workers will be needed in the västerbotten region, and i welcome the measures targeted at workers who feel that their level of qualification is not sufficient for the job vacancies identified in the region, which require specific training.
‒ this request relates to sweden's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 647 workers in training and job search measures with eur 1.8 million. the european commission recognises that 'new and emerging asian truck manufacturers ... have gained access to new technologies from joint ventures with established market leaders in the west'. in 2014, the production of eu commercial vehicles increased, thanks only to the light commercial vehicle segment, while the production of trucks decreased. exports decreased (-10%) while imports increased (10%). the commission notes that the chinese exporting producers did not provide any evidence that the measures in force were in breach of the undertaking. however, in sweden, the volvo group has cut its workforce by 4,000 in four years. capitalism is unchangeable. in sweden too, it is the regions with the highest unemployment rates and lowest skill levels that are most affected by the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation of world trade and the eu's neoliberal policies. the report is weak, but we cannot fail to follow the concrete objective which justifies it.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 5 companies manufacturing motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the northern region of norrland, sweden. on receipt of the application, the commission concluded that it qualified for a financial contribution from the egf. this is the second application to be examined under the 2016 budget and the 22nd in the area concerned, and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 793 710 from the egf for sweden and the redundancies of 500 workers. the swedish authorities state that the reasons for the redundancies are the developments that have affected the european commercial vehicle segment, especially the heavy-duty vehicle industry in recent years, in particular due to the emergence of new truck manufacturers from asia, and the industry's difficulties in adjusting, forcing it to increase efficiency and reduce costs. my vote was in favor.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for sweden, totalling eur 1 793 710, to deal with 470 redundancies at volvo and another 177 at four suppliers and downstream producers in the automotive, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing economic sector in the norrland region of sweden. the report shows that the criteria for mobilising the egf have been met and, aware of the difficulties faced by the automotive sector in recent years and the profound impact this has had on local communities and their economies, i voted in favour.
‒ this request relates to sweden's application to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 647 workers in training and job search measures with eur 1.8 million. according to the commission communication, volvo's strategy 'clearly illustrates a response to these trends by launching optimisation and cost reduction measures while investing aggressively in asia', for example the acquisition of 45% of a chinese company completed in january 2015. however, in sweden, the volvo group has cut 4,000 of its employees in four years. the report does not question the eu's industrial and trade policy, although it duly notes that the high number of egf mobilisations related to this sector justifies the change and volvo's asian strategy: 'partial offshoring ... is driven by the need to increase efficiency and reduce costs to cope with existing and expected global competition'. it follows the commission's position that 'structural changes are necessary to maintain profitability in the european truck market' and that these changes can benefit customers by 'increasing price pressure'.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure, which aims to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and advise member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
‒ technical assistance to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims at coordinating egf applications and publishing the results obtained: financial monitoring, creating a knowledge interface to advise member states on the use of the egf, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the budget foreseen for this assistance shall be no more than 0,5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf (eur 150 million). the commission's proposal for this year provides for the mobilisation of eur 380 000 for technical assistance (0.23% of the maximum annual budget available). the report welcomes and appreciates the work being done to standardise the procedures for egf applications, not without pointing out some criticisms such as the relatively high costs. there are positive aspects, such as the requirement to extend support to young people up to the age of 25 who are not in employment, education or training (neets) by amending the current legal framework, as well as requiring that provision be made for a more general use of the derogation from the eligibility thresholds in favour of smes, the extension of the reference periods, and the possibility of including dismissed workers who provide similar services to those of the dismissed workers of the reference companies. it also called for greater monitoring of beneficiaries. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ union assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008, taking due account of the provisions of the iia of 2 december 2013 on the adoption of decisions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this regulation reflects the agreement reached between parliament and the council to reintroduce the crisis mobilisation criterion, to set the union financial contribution at 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures, to increase the efficiency of the processing of egf applications by the commission, the european parliament and the council by shortening the evaluation and approval deadline, to extend the measures and eligible beneficiaries to include the self-employed and young people, and to finance incentives for the creation of one's own business. these improvements are essential for a more effective egf, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ union assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008, taking due account of the provisions of the iia of 2 december 2013 on the adoption of decisions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i am voting in favour of this report as regards the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and to advise member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016) may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure.
‒ technical assistance to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims at coordinating egf applications and publishing the results obtained: financial monitoring, creating a knowledge interface to advise member states on the use of the egf, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the budget foreseen for this assistance shall be no more than 0,5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf (eur 150 million). the commission's proposal for this year provides for the mobilisation of eur 380 000 for technical assistance (0.23% of the maximum annual budget available). the report welcomes and appreciates the work being done to standardise the procedures for egf applications, not without pointing out some criticisms, such as the relatively high costs. there are positive aspects, such as the requirement to extend support to young people up to the age of 25 who are not in employment, education or training (neets) by amending the current legal framework, as well as requiring that provision be made for a more general use of the derogation from the eligibility thresholds in favour of smes, the extension of the reference periods, and the possibility of including dismissed workers who provide similar services to those of the dismissed workers of the reference companies. it also called for greater monitoring of beneficiaries. we voted in favour.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf, concerning the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. the aim was to finance monitoring and information in order to create a knowledge base/interface for applications and to advise member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. this is the third transfer proposal for mobilisation of the fund transmitted to the budgetary authority to date in 2016. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to finance the egf contact group of experts and the networking seminars on the application of the egf, since the fund's own regulation provides that 0.5% of the amount may be made available for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission, precisely for the purpose of financing the preparation, monitoring, data collection, administrative and technical support and information and communication, audit, monitoring and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. given, on the one hand, that the amount of the proposed funding eur 380 000 represents approximately 0,23% of the maximum annual budget available for the egf in 2016 and that the other assumptions inherent in the allocation of the fund are met, i considered that there were no reasons, in my view, to oppose its approval.
‒ the commission's proposal for this year, made on 22 february, provides for the mobilisation of eur 380000 from the technical assistance fund (0.23% of the maximum annual budget available). the report contains some positive elements, such as the requirement to extend support to young people up to 25 years of age who are not in employment, education or training (neets), by amending the legal framework of the egf after 2017, and calls for provision to be made for a more widespread use of the derogation from the eligibility thresholds in favour of smes and the extension of the reference periods, as well as the possibility to include dismissed workers providing similar services to those of dismissed workers from reference companies, in cases where these have fewer than 500 employees, the minimum threshold for qualifying for the egf. it called for more data to be collected on the actual employability of the beneficiaries, including in the final reports the individual assessments of these beneficiaries. the commission is also asked to provide a justification for the decision to subcontract an external auditor for the mid-term evaluation.
‒ the large influx of people to the external borders of the union has necessitated emergency responses. the same applies to security issues, which in 2015 and already in 2016 have required increased resources. this first amending budget for 2016 addresses these two dimensions. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. at the level of the so-called "refugee crisis", the new domestic humanitarian emergency fund. the need and urgency of this new fund is undeniable, but once again we have resorted to an ad hoc instrument which has avoided the normal legislative procedure (where the european parliament is a co-legislator). as this budget that funds it has shown, parliament has always been constructive and prompt in its response to the refugee crisis. the lack of vision and, too often, the lack of cooperation and sense of urgency has come from the member states. the pressure on the asylum and migration fund (amif), which is also a source of funding here, is also underlined and therefore increasingly needs to be reviewed and strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this amending budget proposes eur 100 million for the creation of an instrument for the provision of emergency support in the union. the urgent issue at the moment is the situation of the refugees in greece. there is a humanitarian emergency which requires urgent action, and greece cannot afford to deal with it alone. but this urgency was foreseeable! the eu is still reacting. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. it should be a fund, based on a regulation, which would be activated whenever a humanitarian emergency situation arose within the eu. its funding should be additional and extraordinary, as is the case with the natural disaster fund and the solidarity fund. the amending budget also includes a eur 2 million increase in the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre at europol. the fight against terrorism requires shared, coordinated and concerted action at eu level.
‒ a budget line is proposed to finance emergency support within the eu more quickly and specifically, whereas there has been only one line for external emergency support. the range of financial instruments available to deal with emergency situations is thus widened. however, the biggest doubts are raised about the new emergency humanitarian assistance mechanism doubts about how the associated funds will be used and for what end, which the committee on freedoms of the european parliament itself has raised. this urgency is clearly due to the lack of a coherent strategy and vision to find a solution to the migration crisis at european level. this draft budget does not provide for new funds, as 100 million will be transferred from the asylum, migration and integration fund to this new emergency fund. the resources of europol and the european counter-terrorism centre are also being strengthened, in a context where the eu insists on policies of aggression and interference which are inseparable from the phenomenon of terrorism, while using it as a pretext to justify a security drift that undermines rights, freedoms and guarantees.
‒ the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an exceptional situation in which a large number of people are in need of emergency humanitarian assistance in the union, and this emergency situation exceeds the response capacity of the most affected member states. there is no adequate instrument at union level to respond to the humanitarian needs of disaster victims in the union. the commission proposal aims to enable the union budget to provide emergency support within the union in order to cope with the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. we are now witnessing a deterioration in the situation of migrants and asylum seekers, in particular because of the lack of coordination of the response of european countries, which makes this emergency support all the more necessary and urgent. we must show solidarity with the member states facing this emergency situation on their territory. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the new associated mechanism for emergency humanitarian assistance raises a number of questions as to the procedure for the application and use of the associated funds and the specific objectives they will serve. this new emergency instrument is being set up to respond, belatedly, to a humanitarian tragedy in which the eu has heavy responsibilities and which has worsened over the last year as a result of the various responses it has implemented, such as the criminal agreement signed with turkey. this draft budget is not supported by a financial increase, but by the transfer of eur 100 million from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) to this new emergency fund. we note with alarm the concentration and expansion of the powers of europol and its european centre for the fight against terrorism, with the recruitment of 25 additional staff, which will be used as a pretext for the latest events in paris and brussels to strengthen surveillance of citizens, a natural consequence of the measures being adopted in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the draft amending budget is intended for emergency humanitarian aid. in view of the deteriorating situation of migrants and asylum seekers, particularly because the response of the european countries is not coordinated, i think this proposal for an amending budget is very timely. it is the creation of a specific budget line, which means that no appropriations are being diverted from the budget for external humanitarian aid, since the commission proposes to finance the first tranche of support under this new instrument by reallocating appropriations from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), which were already intended to enable the burden of refugees to be shared between the member states. i therefore voted in favour. i also agree with the proposal to increase the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre at europol, taking into account the current security situation in the european union.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget has no net impact on the level of appropriations in the 2016 budget and has essentially a twofold objective: to create a budgetary framework for the proposed new instrument to provide emergency support in the union and for immediate funding needs; to strengthen the staffing levels of the europol counter-terrorism centre.
‒ the migration and refugee crisis that has hit europe has created an exceptional situation for thousands of people who are in dire need of emergency humanitarian aid from the union. in this way, thanks to the inability of the member states most affected to respond and thanks to the lack of an appropriate instrument at european level to respond to this situation, a regulation was created for this purpose and subsequently an amending budget with a view to creating the budgetary structure capable of meeting the immediate financing needs. this is the instrument that this report is concerned with, providing for the provision of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and eur 80.2 million in payment appropriations to deal, financially and immediately, with the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. on the basis of the arguments explained and in view of the urgency of the situation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the creation of a union budget line to fund emergency support within the union more quickly and specifically, when there was until now only one line for support to eu external emergencies, has broadened the range of available financial instruments. however, the new associated mechanism for emergency humanitarian assistance raises many questions about how the associated funds will be used and for what end. furthermore, it is clear that this urgency was/is created by the lack of a coherent strategy and vision to find a solution to the migration crisis at european level. this draft budget does not provide for new funds, as 100 million will be transferred from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) to this new emergency fund. more seriously, the power of europol and its european counter-terrorism centre is being strengthened by the recruitment of 25 more staff, on the pretext of the latest events in paris and brussels. as we know, this will not only happen by increasing the number of troops, but also by changing the eu's foreign policy of aggression and occupation.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the budgetary situation is not yet as good as it should be. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency').
‒ having completed all the formalities relating to the appointment of mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors, including the assessment of his qualifications and his hearing, and having found that there was no obstacle to his appointment, i voted in favour of the proposal.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the pool of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name samo jereb.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon, and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the universe of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ given that the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of mr samo jereb, in particular with regard to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i welcome the vote in favour of this report, which gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint the candidate as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ this nomination proposal has already been assessed by the committee on budgetary control, in accordance with criteria of rigour and transparency. having received a proposal from the council on 15 march 2016 and having regard to the open and transparent selection process, i agree to the appointment of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors, as the proposed candidate has demonstrated, at the hearing of the committee on budgetary control, that he has the necessary competence and proven professional experience to perform the duties of a member of the court of auditors.
‒ the selection process was, once again, highly criticized. again, most applicants lack the appropriate professional qualifications and there are strong indications of possible conflicts of interest. none of the candidates has the necessary level of professional expertise for the post and neither of them has been able to ensure that they would be able to perform the functions in question with the necessary degree of independence. in addition, and despite systematic requests by the european parliament in previous reports to the council and the court of auditors, there is a large gender imbalance which is aggravated by the current applications, as all 6 candidates are men. we reject all candidates on the basis of the obvious lack of independence and the likelihood of conflicts of interest, which undermine both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as the eu's independent external auditor, as well as the lack of gender balance.
‒ having completed all the formalities relating to the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors, including the assessment of his qualifications and his hearing, and having found that there was no obstacle to his appointment, i voted in favour of the proposal.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the pool of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name of mihails kozlovs.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the universe of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
in writing. ‒ having assessed the qualifications of mr mihails kozlovs, and taking into account that the committee on budgetary control, at its meeting of 15 march 2016, heard the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors, this report gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ like the other nominations, this one was also assessed by the committee on budgetary control, according to criteria of rigour and transparency. having received a proposal from the council on 15 march 2016 and having regard to the open and transparent selection process, i agree to the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors, as the proposed candidate has demonstrated, at a hearing before the committee on budgetary control, his proven competence and professional experience to perform the duties of a full member of the court of auditors.
‒ the selection process was, once again, highly criticized. again, most applicants lack the appropriate professional qualifications and there are strong indications of possible conflicts of interest. none of the candidates has the necessary level of professional expertise for the post and neither of them has been able to ensure that they would be able to perform the functions in question with the necessary degree of independence. in addition, and despite systematic requests by the european parliament in previous reports to the council and the court of auditors, there is a large gender imbalance, which is aggravated by the current applications, as all 6 candidates are men. we reject all candidates on the basis of the obvious lack of independence and the likelihood of conflicts of interest, which undermine both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as the eu's independent external auditor, as well as the lack of gender balance.
‒ all the formalities relating to the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors having been completed, in particular the assessment of his qualifications and his hearing, and since there is no obstacle to his appointment, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the pool of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name jan gregor.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the universe of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ after the committee on budgetary control had heard mr gregor and assessed his qualifications, this report, which i voted in favour of, gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr gregor to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control has assessed the nomination proposal submitted by the council in march 2016 in accordance with the criteria of rigour and transparency. as the other nominations have been heard by the committee on budgetary control, the candidate in question has shown that he has the necessary competence and professional experience to perform these duties to the full, and i therefore approve the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ the selection process was, once again, highly criticized. again, most applicants lack the appropriate professional qualifications and there are strong indications of possible conflicts of interest. none of the candidates has the necessary level of professional expertise for the post and neither of them has been able to ensure that they would be able to perform the functions in question with the necessary degree of independence. in addition, and despite systematic requests by the european parliament in previous reports to the council and the court of auditors, there is a large gender imbalance, which is aggravated by the current applications, as all 6 candidates are men. we reject all candidates on the basis of the obvious lack of independence and the likelihood of conflicts of interest, which undermine both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as the eu's independent external auditor, as well as the lack of gender balance.
‒ all the formalities relating to the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors having been completed, including the assessment of his qualifications and his hearing, and there being no obstacle to his appointment, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the pool of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name ladislav balko.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the universe of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ taking into account that the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of mr ladislav balko and has heard him, this report gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors, as the candidate has demonstrated, at the hearing before the committee on budgetary control, his competence and professional experience for the performance of these duties. following the council's proposal of 15 march 2016, the selection process was conducted in an open and transparent manner and i have no objection to this appointment.
‒ the selection process was, once again, highly criticized. again, most applicants lack the appropriate professional qualifications and there are strong indications of possible conflicts of interest. none of the candidates has the necessary level of professional expertise for the post and neither of them has been able to ensure that they would be able to perform the functions in question with the necessary degree of independence. in addition, and despite systematic requests by the european parliament in previous reports to the council and the court of auditors, there is a large gender imbalance which is aggravated by the current applications, as all 6 candidates are men. we reject all candidates on the basis of the obvious lack of independence and the likelihood of conflicts of interest, which undermine both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as the eu's independent external auditor, as well as the lack of gender balance.
‒ all the formalities relating to the appointment of mr janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, including the assessment of his qualifications and his hearing, having been completed, his appointment was nevertheless vetoed by the commission. i voted for the motion.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the pool of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, as he did not provide sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of not appointing janusz wojciechowski.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the deadline for 6 of these posts is coming up soon and 6 new candidates have been proposed by the member states. in a joint assessment of the universe of candidates, doubts are raised as to whether they fully meet the criteria of professional competence and experience, as to their political profile and independence, as to their suitability for the specific post and as to the existence of conflicts of interest. some of these reasons led to the rejection of some of the candidates in the specialised committee of the european parliament responsible for examining applications (committee on budgetary control). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. there's not a single woman among the candidates. these are the aspects which have weighed heavily on our group's position in this vote.
‒ after the committee on budgetary control has heard mr janusz wojciechowski and assessed his qualifications, this report gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr wojciechowski to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ having received a proposal from the council on 15 march 2016, and having regard to the fact that the hearing of the proposed candidate by the committee on budgetary control was conducted on the basis of criteria of rigour and transparency, and that the professional competence and experience of the candidate janusz wojciechowski for the performance of the proposed duties were demonstrated, i have agreed to this appointment as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ the selection process was, once again, highly criticized. again, most applicants lack the appropriate professional qualifications and there are strong indications of possible conflicts of interest. none of the candidates has the necessary level of professional expertise for the post and neither of them has been able to ensure that they would be able to perform the functions in question with the necessary degree of independence. in addition, and despite systematic requests by the european parliament in previous reports to the council and the court of auditors, there is a large gender imbalance, which is aggravated by the current applications, as all 6 candidates are men. we reject all candidates on the basis of the obvious lack of independence and the likelihood of conflicts of interest, which undermine both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as the eu's independent external auditor, as well as the lack of gender balance.
‒ glyphosate-containing plant protection products are one of the preferred tools of portuguese farmers as systemic herbicides, due to their effectiveness and low cost. they currently represent 70% of the total sales volume of herbicides in portugal, being used in vineyards, fruit orchards, olive groves and cereals. the use of these is part of the farm support programmes under the rdp 2020. i therefore agree with the conclusions of the european food safety authority, which dissociates the carcinogenic potential of glyphosate from that of a co-formulant (taloamine), which should receive special attention from the authorities.
‒ the results of the european food safety authority's toxicity investigation of glyphosate are inconsistent with the conclusion of the world health organisation's agency for research on cancer regarding the classification of the carcinogenic potential of this substance in humans. a high long-term risk has been identified for almost all uses of glyphosate for non-target terrestrial vertebrates, including mammals and birds. the use of this non-selective herbicide not only kills weeds, but all plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem. nevertheless, the european commission proposes to allow glyphosate to be used until 2031, i.e. for as long as possible, for any use, without any restrictions (except for one of the more than 500 co-formulants), subject only to confirmatory information on endocrine disrupting properties. the european commission's proposal therefore fails to ensure the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and does not apply the precautionary principle. we therefore advocate not renewing the approval of glyphosate and establishing a timetable for the establishment of a list of co-formulants not accepted for inclusion in plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because to extend the authorisation of glyphosate for another seven years is to give in to the economic interests of the multinationals. when we talk about glyphosate, we're talking about a chemical that has already been classified by the who as potentially carcinogenic. however, unlike other chemicals with the same who classification, glyphosate is impossible to avoid. every day, we are exposed to glyphosate, without choice or protection, in soil, water, food and even in cotton-based hygiene products. with the decision now adopted, the majority of this parliament sacrifices the rights of all citizens to health and to quality of life, by once again putting environmental and social interests ahead of economic ones.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance glyphosate, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. the european food safety authority (efsa) is the competent body of the european union responsible for independent scientific advice on food safety and potential risks in the food chain. efsa confirmed that glyphosate does not have carcinogenic or mutagenic properties and has no toxic effect on fertility, reproduction or embryonic development. therefore, and taking into account that glyphosate represents a very important tool for the productivity and competitiveness of portuguese agriculture, it is very important that the marketing authorization for glyphosate in the community be renewed for another 7 years.
in writing. the results of the european food safety authority's toxicity investigation of glyphosate as regards the classification of the carcinogenic potential of this substance in humans are contradictory to the conclusion of the world health organisation's agency for research on cancer. there is evidence of a high long-term risk, whatever its use, to non-target terrestrial vertebrates, including mammals and birds. the use of this non-selective herbicide promotes the indiscriminate elimination of plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, which has a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem. however, the european commission proposes to allow glyphosate to be used until 2031, the maximum possible period for any use, without any restrictions (except for one of the more than 500 co-formulants), only subject to confirmatory information on endocrine disrupting properties. the european commission's proposal not only fails to ensure, but also ignores the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and opts for not applying the precautionary principle. we therefore advocate not renewing the approval of glyphosate and establishing a timetable for the establishment of a list of co-formulants not accepted for inclusion in plant protection products.
‒ it is a herbicide widely used in portugal (in agriculture and by the chambers in gardens and roads). the opinions of experts are many and contradictory.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has decided to extend the existing measures to include the protection of the environment. i did so on the basis of the european food safety authority (efsa) study which states that glyphosate is 'unlikely to be carcinogenic to humans'. however, given the doubts raised by other studies, i strongly support the european parliament's call in this resolution to the european commission to make public, as soon as possible, all the scientific evidence that led to this positive classification of glyphosate by efsa.
‒ i voted in favour of continuing to authorise the use of glyphosate. the scientific evidence regarding carcinogenic effects and as an endocrine disruptor is not consistent. glyphosate has the seal of the european food safety authority. i do think that the arguments of agricultural organizations and of organizations for the conservation of habitats and biodiversity are consistent, particularly with regard to the southern european countries, which are more exposed to invasive species. prohibiting the use of this product would seriously damage our agriculture and the success of conservation actions under the birds and habitats directives. like any product, handling is subject to rules to ensure that there are no risks to people and the environment. precautionary principle, by precautionary principle, i prefer to apply it in favour of the conservation of species and habitats where glyphosate has proven to be a unique and very useful weapon, which has passed the negative impact tests conducted on the basis of monitoring programmes, which i believe to be rigorous. i fear that in addition to the negative impact on agriculture, a ban on the use of glyphosate would mean losing years of good conservation and habitat restoration practices.
‒ a high long-term risk has been identified for almost all uses of glyphosate for non-target terrestrial vertebrates, including mammals and birds. the use of this non-selective herbicide not only kills weeds but all plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem. nevertheless, the european commission proposes to allow glyphosate to be used until 2031, i.e. for as long as possible, for any use, without any restrictions (except for one of the more than 500 co-formulants), subject only to confirmatory information on endocrine disrupting properties. the european commission's proposal therefore fails to ensure the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and does not apply the precautionary principle. we therefore advocate not renewing the approval of glyphosate and establishing a timetable for the establishment of a list of co-formulants not accepted for inclusion in plant protection products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the objection to renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate, as it now includes an amendment stating that the approval of glyphosate is extended for 7 years, rather than 15 as originally planned, and that the commission may withdraw the approval of an active substance during the period of its authorisation if it no longer meets the criteria for its approval. the amendment also provides for the exclusion of thalamine, a co-formulant that has demonstrated genotoxic potential and cannot be used in plant protection products, and proposes to accelerate the work towards the establishment and consolidation of annex iii to regulation (eu) no 1107/2009 on prohibited co-formulants.
‒ i support the report by mrs kalniete on the challenges for the eu in a more connected and more complex global world. the report reaffirms the eu's founding principles of promoting peace and the well-being of its peoples, with particular emphasis on the ability to anticipate, prevent and respond to challenges and threats, as well as on the security of energy supplies and the effects of climate change. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i agree with the guidelines that arms export controls are an integral part of the eu's foreign and security policy and that member states are called upon to respect the common position on arms exports. i agree with proposals such as the creation of the format of the council of defence ministers (chaired by the high representative), the enhancement of the neighbourhood policy (and the creation of conditions for the stability and prosperity of neighbouring states), as well as the creation of partnerships with regional actors on specific sectoral issues arising from global threats and challenges.
‒ many of the threats and challenges facing the eu today and in the future are complex and interrelated, stem from state and non-state actors, and originate both within and beyond common borders. these threats are identified in the 2003 european security strategy (terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, loss of state authority and organised crime) and remain, for the most part, relevant. i therefore believe it is important to strengthen structured and coherent cooperation in defence research and development, industrial-based and cyber defence, through mutualisation and resource sharing and other cooperative projects; to dedicate 2% of defence expenditure to research and to launch an eu-funded defence research and technology programme.
‒ the report presents a comprehensive set of justifications for the need to further strengthen european militarism and eu security policy. it addresses the changes the world has experienced in recent years and the supposed new threats to which the eu is subject. it calls for the overcoming of interinstitutional barriers to overcome the threats, i.e. the deepening of the eu's harmonisation and federalist approach. it advocates increased investment in the various european security-related sectors and greater support for the european military-industrial complex, paving the way for the creation of an eu military force. it advocates an increase in member states' military expenditure. it advocates complementarity and cooperation, read as subordination, with nato, defining it and the us as key strategic partners. it links the military and security posture with the consolidation of the energy union. it leads the eu's migration policy, the frontex action and the creation of the european border and coast guard. it supports the strengthening of schengen, the logic of 'strong europe' and the eu's neighbourhood policy. policies and attitudes which are contrary to the building of policies of solidarity, cooperation and peace, with respect for the sovereignty of states. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ the european union's objective is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples, while ensuring the security of its citizens and its territory. the eu should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, its ability to anticipate, prevent and address foreseeable challenges and threats, be prepared to respond swiftly to unforeseeable crises, and ensure its ability to recover from different types of attacks, as well as safeguard the security of energy and raw material supply, while taking into account the effects of climate change, which need to be addressed urgently, and the eu should take a leading role in global climate action and the promotion of sustainable development. in such a volatile and haphazard international environment, the eu must have strategic autonomy to ensure its security and promote its interests and values. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe faces numerous challenges, such as the fight against terrorism, organised crime, migration flows, regional conflicts, and more. these realities pose serious challenges to common security and require rapid and concerted action. in view of the promotion of its objectives and values, the eu should play a role in promoting peace and the security and stability of its citizens. the eu's foreign and security policy is based on the maintenance of international peace and security, the promotion of international cooperation, the development and consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in this regard, the eu must adopt a coherent and concerted strategy to ensure that it has the capacity to anticipate, prevent and respond to emerging challenges and threats. i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i consider it essential to outline a common strategy to promote an effective and efficient response to the challenges facing the eu, particularly in the field of security.
‒ the report presents a comprehensive set of justifications for the need to further strengthen european militarism and eu security policy. it addresses the changes the world has experienced in recent years and the supposed new threats to which the eu is subject. it calls for the overcoming of interinstitutional barriers to overcome the threats, i.e. the deepening of the eu's harmonisation and federalist approach. it advocates increased investment in the various european security-related sectors and greater support for the european military-industrial complex, paving the way for the creation of an eu military force. it advocates increased investment by member states in defence. it advocates complementarity and cooperation, read as subordination, with nato, defining it and the us as key strategic partners. he advocates un reform. it links the militaristic and security posture to the consolidation of the energy union. it leads the eu's migration policy, the frontex action and the creation of the european border and coast guard. it supports the strengthening of schengen, the logic of 'strong europe' and the eu's neighbourhood policy. policies and attitudes which are contrary to the building of policies of solidarity, cooperation and peace, with respect for the sovereignty of states. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ many of the threats and challenges facing the eu are complex, interrelated, emanate from state and non-state actors and originate both within and beyond common borders. this report states that the eu's objective is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples, while ensuring the security of its citizens and its territory. to cope with this changing global environment, the report states that the strategy must go through the identification and hierarchisation of threats and challenges, the definition of responses and the determination of the necessary means. it also stressed that the borders of each member state are the borders of the union and should therefore be defended, stressing that development is not possible without security and that there can be no security without development. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the eu must be an actor capable of dealing with a world in constant change and with permanent security challenges. member states should work in synergy, developing their defence capabilities and cooperating more effectively. the eu needs to be more active in its neighbourhood and be able to prevent and manage crises and conflicts that pose challenges to the security of its citizens.
the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. it calls for the strengthening of cooperation and support for the european defence industrial and technological base and criticises the internal and external security policy and its subordination to the market, development policy and energy policy. we regret that the report does not reflect the eu's contribution to the negative escalation of conflicts (to the south and east of the eu), does not criticise the policy of strengthening military and defence, nor the strengthening of relations with nato, the strengthening of european internal security and the eu's military bases. we demand that the eu disarm completely, including nuclear weapons, at various global levels, that no money be directed from the eu budget towards military research, that all military activities be carried out under the auspices of the un and in accordance with the values enshrined in the un charter, always relying on civilian solutions to conflict. we demand the separation of the eu from nato, as well as the dissolution of nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the kalniete report, which calls for a renewed role for the european union on the international scene. we need an eu that is more active in its neighbourhood and able to prevent and manage crises more effectively. the european union must join forces with strategic partners of international importance, but it also has an obligation to do more and better in synergy with its own member states to respond to the global challenges of security, climate change and sustainable development.
in the light of what has been approved by the majority of the european parliament on other occasions, we are faced with another report whose content is essentially a repository of interference in third countries, not concealing quite the contrary the clear objective of obtaining conditions favourable to the interests of the major european economic and financial groups and the powers that represent them. as the report says, the countries of central asia, particularly the former ussr, are of great importance to the eu. it's strategically important. the region has particular characteristics, being a heterogeneous, multiethnic, multinational reality, where tensions have been constant, particularly with regard to the control of natural resources. tensions are being stirred up, exploited and exploited in favour of the imperialist interests that hover over the region, and this report is a clear example of that. the interest in the energy sector is clear. the interest in this part of the world is obvious. the interest in the proximity to russia is clear. this is the heart of this report and the strategy it sets out. we voted against it.
‒ the eu strategy for central asia was adopted in the context of the increasing importance of the region, the strengthening of the eu's engagement in afghanistan, the enlargement of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian sea region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies and the eu's energy security interests. we must recognise that security threats and challenges require cooperation between central asia and the eu, including its member states. the present strategy has been in operation for almost eight years. it is therefore important to strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia, based on common and shared values. such designation is of substantial strategic, political and economic interest to the eu, as set out in the existing partnership and cooperation agreements concluded by the eu with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan, as well as in the agreement with turkmenistan, which has not yet entered into force. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in 2007, a set of objectives under the eu-central asia strategy was outlined in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. however, despite the progress made in this area, these objectives have not yet been fully achieved and their implementation needs to be reviewed and strengthened, following a line of bilateral cooperation and taking into account the specificities of each country in the region. the strengthening of the eu-central asia strategy should be guided by the promotion of respect for human rights, respect for the principles of the rule of law, women's rights and the defence of gender equality, the promotion of equal access to education and sustainable economic integration and development as crucial vehicles for the economic and social development of the region. in this regard, it is important to re-establish the eu special representative for central asia with the aim of ensuring an effective and coherent implementation of the strategy outlined for this region. i therefore vote in favour, in that i consider it essential to review the strategy outlined and to re-establish an eu special representative for the central asian region.
‒ the report addresses the review of the eu strategy for central asia, following on from the 2007 strategy. the countries of central asia are of great geopolitical importance to the eu. it is not surprising that the eu is intervening in third countries, particularly in this region. the position of encirclement of russia and china is deepening, seeking bridges to the countries of the region that undermine the developments of regional economic cooperation that undermine the interests of the eu, its powers and major economic groups. structural reforms are advocated, which should be centred, apostolically, on specific areas of intervention: respect for human rights, the rule of law, good governance, democracy, youth and education policies, trade, economic, development, transport, environmental and water management policies. of course, by forcing alignment with the eu's 'values', 'practices' and above all its interests, in a logic of 'unidirectional cooperation', notably through free trade agreements, which guarantee favourable conditions for the resources and wealth of those countries. energy policy is relevant and, behind the flowery, there is the interest in ensuring access to and control of the energy resources of those countries. we voted against it.
‒ this report stresses the strengthening of bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia, based on common and shared values, as being of substantial strategic, political and economic interest to the eu. the strategic approach to relations with the countries of central asia has so far proved unviable and unprofitable, and the report acknowledges that economic relations between the eu and the countries targeted by the central asia strategy (kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan) have not developed substantially. according to the report, the objective of promoting regional cooperation and integration between these same countries through the sharing of experience and the transfer of eu standards has not advanced. the document thus welcomes the eu's strategic review for central asia, understanding that the priorities, goals and objectives should be more specifically aligned with the interests and requirements of the partner states of central asia, taking due account of the differences between the countries of the region and the unique character of each of them, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the eu has many trade, energy and security interests in central asia. these interests must not compromise human and democratic rights.
‒ this report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia underlines the eu's political and economic strategy interest in strengthening its bilateral relations with the countries of central asia, particularly in the energy field. regional cooperation in achieving sustainable results in the medium and long term is therefore key to the success of this strategy. to this end, there are principles for which the eu must continue to fight, such as the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, the protection of human rights and freedom of expression, and good governance. despite limited positive developments in the countries of the region, democratic principles and the defence of human rights remain a matter of concern. the rapporteur draws particular attention to the still existing (and unfortunately prevalent) gaps in children's rights, women's rights and gender equality, religious fanaticism, drug trafficking, environmental protection, stressing that education is one of the key areas in which the union should apply its long-term measures - as an absolutely essential pillar of integration and as a driver of economic, social and democratic development in central asia. as i said earlier, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the countries of central asia which emerged from post-soviet societies are of great importance to the eu, and strategic importance. the increase in religious fanaticism and the increase in the participation of the population in these countries in terrorist groups is considered to be of concern. they consider education to be fundamental to the development of democracy in the region. they advocate that women's rights and gender equality be guaranteed. they believe that the problems of global warming, and especially water, must be addressed. they value china and russia's involvement in regional politics. we are sensitive to human rights violations anywhere in the world. we reject any external intervention, especially by the eu, which has no legitimacy to give lessons in democracy to anyone. the solution lies in the sovereignty of states and the ability of peoples to solve their own problems.
‒ the zika virus is identified as the main cause of the increase in cases of microcephaly in newborn babies. the virus has been detected in 28 countries and mainly affects young and poor women living in less developed countries or regions. i agree with the common sense that the international community should learn from the experience of the ebola crisis and invest in research and prevention of the causes that promote the disease. i call for new funding opportunities to be explored under horizon 2020 for research into the development of vaccines against malaria and infectious diseases such as zika. i agree with the mandate given to the commission to present a plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe.
‒ the fight against zika virus needs greater scientific and operational cooperation between eu member states and the latin american countries most affected by zika to establish better prevention, control, diagnosis and possible treatments. according to the world health organization, this virus could affect about four million people in the americas alone in 2016. news of this outbreak is becoming increasingly alarming, and there is strong suspicion that this virus may cause congenital malformations and neurological syndromes. i think it is essential that research also includes possible links between the virus and congenital malformations and neurological syndromes.
‒ the international committee on emergency health regulations has declared the zika virus outbreak to be an emergency of international public health concern. experts agree that the causal relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected, although not yet scientifically proven. all agreed on the urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance, to intensify control of mosquito populations, and to accelerate the development of diagnostic tests and vaccines to protect those at risk, especially during pregnancy. this resolution calls, inter alia, for specific measures to be taken in potentially exposed european regions, for communication plans to be drawn up, for investment in research into the possible causal relationship between microcephaly and pyriproxyfen use, and for other possible and complementary causes of microcephaly. the zika epidemic in the americas continues to evolve and expand geographically, with brazil being the most affected country. there is strong evidence of an association between zika virus infection during pregnancy and congenital malformations of the central nervous system, as well as between zika virus infection and guillain-barré syndrome. all the international solidarity on the part of the eu is due at this time.
‒ on 1 february 2016, the who declared the zika virus outbreak as a public health emergency of international concern. zika virus is an emerging mosquito-borne virus, first identified in 1947 in the zika forest rhesus monkey in uganda by a wild yellow fever monitoring network. zika virus is mainly transmitted to people through the bite of infected mosquitoes of the genus aedes, especially aedes aegypti, in tropical regions, the same mosquito that transmits dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. it is important to set up communication plans at the most appropriate scale in order to raise public awareness and promote appropriate behaviour to avoid mosquito bites. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in view of the declaration by the world health organisation of 1 february 2016 classifying the zika virus as an international public health emergency and in view of the fact that some cases of infection have been reported in the member states of the union, it is urgent to establish an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to support third countries. zika virus is a serious public health problem, as it mainly affects economically disadvantaged women with less access to health and hygiene care and worse living conditions, and is associated with cases of babies born with microcephaly. in this regard, it is necessary to deepen and support scientific research, improve access to primary health care and prevent the spread of viruses. in this respect, i am voting in favour, because i believe that the union should play an active role in defining strategies to prevent the spread, in supporting research and in providing access to health care.
‒ the international committee on emergency health regulations has declared the zika virus outbreak to be an emergency of international public health concern. experts agree that the causal relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected, although not yet scientifically proven. all agreed on the urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance, to intensify control of mosquito populations and to accelerate the development of diagnostic tests and vaccines to protect those at risk, especially during pregnancy. this resolution calls, inter alia, for specific measures to be taken in potentially exposed european regions, for communication plans to be drawn up, for investment in research into the possible causal relationship between microcephaly and the use of pyriproxyfen, and for other possible and complementary causes of microcephaly. the zika epidemic in the americas continues to evolve and expand geographically, with brazil being the most affected country. there is strong evidence of an association between zika virus infection during pregnancy and congenital malformations of the central nervous system, as well as between zika virus infection and guillain-barré syndrome. all the international solidarity on the part of the eu is due at this time.
‒ on 1 february 2016, the who declared the zika virus outbreak as a public health emergency of international concern. this report notes that the zika virus, transmitted by mosquito bites, has been detected in 28 countries and that its consequences can change the lives of victims, in particular young and poor women. the report calls on the commission to present a plan for the prevention of the virus in europe and stresses that research should be articulated in three lines: investigation of the strong suspicions of a link between the virus and congenital brain malformations, development of treatments and vaccines and the creation of tests that allow rapid and effective diagnosis. the commission is also proposing that, where eu public funds are invested in research, the results should be exempt from intellectual property rights and that patients should be guaranteed access to the products developed at affordable prices. the report also welcomes the commission's decision to mobilise eur 10 million for the investigation, recommending that it focus on cases of severe congenital brain malformation in latin america and the suspected link with zika virus infection. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, the world health organization (who) declared the zika virus outbreak (transmitted by mosquitoes) as a public health emergency of international concern, and identified it as the main cause of the increase in microcephaly cases in newborn babies. zika has been detected in 28 countries and its consequences can change the lives of victims, particularly young and poor women, the vast majority of whom live in the less developed regions of the worst-hit countries. in addition, zika research should focus on preventing the spread of the virus to other regions, developing treatments and vaccines, and developing tests for rapid and effective diagnosis. the european commission has already committed €10 million for research into this virus. however, the need to create an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe, supporting member states and third countries in the fight against this epidemic in the most affected regions, should not be underestimated. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the zika virus outbreak is a public health emergency of international concern. experts agree that the causal relationship between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected, although not yet scientifically proven. all agreed on the urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance, to intensify control of mosquito populations and to accelerate the development of diagnostic tests and vaccines to protect those at risk, especially during pregnancy. the zika epidemic in the americas continues to evolve and expand geographically, with brazil being the most affected country. this resolution calls, inter alia, for specific measures to be taken in potentially exposed european regions, for communication plans to be drawn up, for investment in research into the possible causal relationship between microcephaly and pyriproxyfen use, and for other possible and complementary causes of microcephaly. all the international solidarity on the part of the eu is due at this time.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the zika virus outbreak, which sets out a set of proposals to completely eradicate this threat to global public health. in the last two months, cases of zika virus infection have been reported in 39 countries including some territories in the outermost regions of the eu. while there is currently no risk of indigenous transmission of the virus in the rest of the eu, this could change during the summer months, so we must be prepared to respond to an outbreak in continental europe. i therefore call for intensified efforts to investigate the virus and its effects, as well as rapid diagnostic tests, screening, treatments and vaccines.
in writing. the european commission announced at the beginning of the year that it had opened a procedure to investigate possible breaches of the rule of law by the polish authorities, due to changes in the functioning and organisation of the constitutional tribunal and in the process of appointing the heads of public media bodies. after the terrorist attacks in brussels, the polish prime minister cancelled the reception of refugees agreed by the previous government. however, all the terrorist attacks were perpetrated by european citizens and not by refugees. recently, the government has expressed its intention to promote the criminalization of abortion, the limitation of the use of contraceptive methods and the creation of a new criminal category: prenatal homicide, with a criminal framework of 3 to 5 years. these changes represent a civilizational setback in terms of women's rights in a country where, according to who, about 240,000 illegal abortions are performed every year. finally, the polish government's decision to replace its representatives on the venice commission after they had criticised the polish government's actions was known. all these incidents deserve the european parliament's most profound condemnation.
in writing. ‒ we are a union of values, founded on democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers. the accession of a country is first and foremost dependent on its respect for these principles. of course, national policies are not immutable and often change after elections. what is not often - and we should be concerned - is that with a new government the nature of the state is changed. what is happening in poland is frankly worrying. the functioning of a democratic rule of law is based on the separation and respect between the different sovereign bodies, and in this context the constitutional court has a central role. i support this resolution and i strongly share its call for constitutional normalisation in this important member state.
‒ recent events in poland, in particular the political and legal conflict over the composition of the constitutional tribunal and the new rules on its functioning, have given rise to concerns regarding the constitutional tribunal's capacity to defend the constitution and ensure respect for the rule of law, which have been confirmed by the venice commission. the measures taken by the polish government and the president of the republic with regard to the constitutional tribunal represent a risk to constitutional democracy. it should be recalled that all member states must fully respect eu law and that all legislation must reflect and respect basic european values, including democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i am therefore concerned that the paralysis of the polish constitutional court is endangering democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
the situation in poland, resulting from the rise to power of ultraconservative and reactionary forces, is worrying. in addition to the influence on the work of the constitutional court, the attack on the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens and workers is at issue. the political persecution and the ban on communist symbols in that country are a serious expression of this. we cannot dissociate the emergence of these and other extreme right-wing and nazi-fascist forces from the reactionary, racist, xenophobic and anti-democratic nature of the european union's own policies and from a continuing strategy of crushing the sovereignty of peoples, situations and policies which we firmly condemn and systematically denounce. this resolution is tainted with hypocrisy. the right criticism and concern about attacks on democracy, freedom and the rights of peoples are not compatible with gross interference in sovereign countries, since sovereignty is also a democratic right. it is up to each people to decide the measures and struggles to defeat those who attack their rights. the eu has no authority or legitimacy to scrutinize or sanction any country. it is up to parliament to express solidarity with those who are fighting for democracy in poland. we stand in solidarity with this struggle and defend the democratic rights and sovereignty of the polish people.
‒ the polish government has introduced legal changes to the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal, including changes to the voting system. this reform raises a number of compatibility problems with the values and principles of the rule of law, in particular the principle of independence and separation of powers. in addition to the changes to the functioning of the court, there are a number of issues that are of concern as they may constitute violations of eu law and fundamental rights, such as matters relating to freedom of the press and respect for ethnic and religious minorities. as is clear from article 2 teu, the union is founded on the values of democracy and respect for human rights, and it is therefore for the member states, in the context of their activities, to ensure that the values enshrined in the treaties are respected. i therefore vote in favour, because i believe that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must play an active role in assessing the existence of threats and ensuring that common european values are fully respected.
in writing. ‒ we are aware of the situation in poland, resulting from the rise to power of ultraconservative and reactionary forces. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the political persecution and the ban on communist symbols in that country are a serious expression of this. we cannot dissociate the emergence of these and other extreme right-wing and nazi-fascist forces from the reactionary, racist, xenophobic and anti-democratic nature of the european union's own policies and from a continuing strategy of crushing the sovereignty of peoples, situations and policies which we firmly condemn and systematically denounce. this resolution is tainted with hypocrisy. the right criticism and concern about attacks on democracy, freedom and the rights of peoples are not compatible with gross interference in sovereign countries, since sovereignty is also a democratic right. it is up to each people to decide the measures and struggles to defeat those who attack their rights. the eu has no right or legitimacy to put forward recommendations and 'solutions', much less sanctions. it is up to parliament to express solidarity with those who are fighting for democracy in poland. we abstained from voting on this resolution because we are in solidarity with this struggle and because we defend the democratic rights and sovereignty of the polish people.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, the document stresses, however, that all measures to be taken must respect the competences of the eu and its member states as defined by the treaties and the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ since the last elections in october 2015, which gave victory to beata szydlo, poland has been implementing a worrying set of reforms, especially in the field of justice, which may call into question democratic principles, the most elementary human rights and the rule of law itself. the recent legal and political conflict over the composition of the constitutional tribunal and its rules of operation threaten to undermine the capacity of this sovereign body to adequately defend the constitution and ensure respect for the rule of law, as they pose a risk to constitutional democracy itself. in this respect, i was in favour of the adoption of this motion for a resolution by the european parliament, which calls on poland to fully respect the rule of law and the fundamental european values, and to publish and fully implement the judgments conferring on the constitutional court the role of guarantor of the supremacy of the constitution.
‒ recent events in poland have raised concerns about the constitutional tribunal's ability to uphold the constitution and ensure respect for the rule of law. the venice commission stated that the constitutional tribunal cannot fulfil its role as guarantor of the supremacy of the constitution of poland due to the fact that its decision of 9 march 2016 has not been published and therefore cannot enter into force, thus undermining the rule of law. this compromises the rule of law. the decisions of the polish president and government are considered a risk to constitutional democracy. in a subsequent procedure, the commission will assess whether there is a breach of the rule of law by poland.
i congratulate the rapporteurs jan albrecht and mariu lauristin on the long and hard-negotiated political agreement on the data protection package and on passenger identification records. a package that constitutes a legislative framework that represents a step forward in clarifying the fundamental rights to privacy and the protection of personal data of citizens in the european union and indeed globally, in the face of the risks and threats arising from the digitisation of our communications, our behaviour and our economies. we socialists have always argued that parallel negotiations were necessary because the processing and use of data by the private sector, but also by public administration and law enforcement authorities, was at stake. only then would common, clear rules for all member states be ensured for sharing data, allowing in particular police authorities to cooperate effectively in the fight against terrorism. i have reservations, though. as regards pnr, the member states have imposed that the sharing of information is neither mandatory nor automatic, leaving it to the discretion of each member state to define what it considers necessary and relevant. this only reinforces mistrust between partners, reluctance to share information, inability to act effectively and in concert. it is therefore contrary to the very essence of what the directive was intended to do. we risk ending up with 28 different pnrs, uncoordinated and not part of a european action plan to combat radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist networks. in addition, the council is responsible for a significant loophole that seriously weakens the system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. let us be clear: the pnr instrument, now regulated on its own, will not be effective in combating terrorism and organised crime. investment in counter-terrorism resources and training is needed. the european union's member states must above all commit themselves to ensuring that their officials are committed to using the european mechanisms already in place. that's the only way we'll get the balance... (the president cut the speaker off)
the pnr has been rejected by some on the left on the pretext of a personal data protection which, in many cases, travel agencies already have, but the left wants to turn it into absolute rights. they are not, and collective security is a right of the highest importance. it would be good if we could even think about what the victims would say if they could argue in this debate. i have even heard the extraordinary argument that in the recent attacks the terrorists were not from outside europe. let's see, the terrorists born here, they travel too, they have to be controlled. when they are indoctrinated in syria and other countries, terrorists from home and abroad, they are one, in a criminal organization that has moral authors and material authors. they're all criminals. and i would like to remind you that in the september 11 attacks, 19 terrorists hijacked the crews and passengers of four airplanes, killed 3,000 people. the terrorists were not from here, they were from outside, and the victims were from all over the world. i would also like to recall an important statement recently made by the high commissioner for refugees, recalling - i know it was about refugees - that terrorists can fly when they want to. that is precisely why the pnr is so important. and so, frankly, i say: terrorism is not fought with fantasy or with romantic proclamations. please approve the pnr.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, to highlight the positive work he has done, the enormous effort. you did your best. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. i would like to remind you that the european union budget is mainly investment: 94% is for investment and only 6% is for all administrative expenditure. and then to talk about the european parliament's budget is to talk about one fifth of this administrative expenditure. and we have to defend the interests of the citizens of the european union, and they demand proper legislation, high-quality legislation. and to do that we need the minimum but the sufficient, particularly in terms of technical means and human resources. we are also all in favour of diversity, multilingualism and, of course, the safety and security of those who work here. we also defend robust systems that resist cyber attacks. we therefore also advocate the necessary and sufficient means to this end. we want a tight budget, and we work for it. an efficient budget, with the means to respond positively to the challenges we have set here, which we are putting into practice here, to the challenges which the european union is imposing on us. and so i ask that you vote in favour of this report. it is not the ideal report, but it is the report that is possible and we have done our best to save, to improve also the initial proposal that was given to us by the secretary-general.
madam president, we have noted in this report the importance of being efficient in the use of public resources and fully transparent in our accountability. the dematerialization and digitisation of files should, however, always avoid any kind of deletion. what we do not follow is this fashion of austerity, which always imposes a reduction in costs and which always makes itself felt in the same headings. we are sensitive to the issue of security, but we do not feed this security drift, which makes this house increasingly resemble a prison or a fortress. we do not understand this reduction in staff, while at the same time we want to give the european parliament more and more importance and centrality. we are not following the concerns about the chauffeur service either. just as we defend the interests of those who work, we also want this house to set an example by giving stability to its workers.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, smes, which are the backbone of the european economy, are facing more difficulties in financing their investment projects and especially their cash requirements as a result of the crisis. it's a fact. despite all the measures taken, allegedly to help solve this problem, from the cosme programme to horizon 2020 and this measure to amend the capital waste regulation, the billions of euros injected into the financial system by the ecb are not reaching those who need them. the oecd itself recognises this. it is important, therefore, to understand where the root of the problem lies. and for us, the problem continues to lie, on the one hand, in this vicious circle of perpetual austerity, which undermines the confidence of investors, and, on the other, in a banking system geared to speculative activities for its own benefit. we continue to believe that only a public investment policy that draws in private investment, together with a restructuring of the financial system, can restart growth and put the economy at the service of development and people.
mr president, mr commissioner, poverty requires the authorities, and above all the european political leaders, to have the courage to change the way in which it is viewed. it calls for a paradigm shift. indeed, poverty is not just an economic problem. it is above all a flagrant violation of human rights. it hurts its victims at the very core, at the very core of their rights: namely, the dignity of human persons. the first change that is needed today in the european union itself is that it does not distinguish between those refugees who are fleeing war and political violence and those who are fleeing misery and poverty and disease, epidemics of deadly diseases. all of them impose on us the fundamental duty of solidarity. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is in poverty and misery that extreme forms of violence are born.
madam president, the rule of law, respect for human rights and tolerance for diversity are at stake in honduras. this situation is unacceptable. it must be exposed and fought. the european parliament's frontal denunciation and position in this resolution is an important challenge for change. we cannot underestimate europe's role as an ethical and legal reference point in defending the basic rights of peoples and open and free societies. we must therefore consider in our economic partnerships the level of commitment of our partners to practices which respect human rights and freedoms. the resolution cannot therefore be exhausted in itself. it will have to have practical consequences if the honduran government does not step up and guarantee freedom of action for human rights defenders in its country.
human rights activism is a high-risk activity. the repression of activists takes many forms, from harassment, threats and smear campaigns to arbitrary detention, torture, enforced disappearances and killings. the situation of human rights defenders in honduras is particularly serious, as we are reminded by the deplorable murders of berta cáceres, nelson garcia and paola barraza. despite some recent legislative progress, in honduras, as in latin america in general, defenders of indigenous peoples' rights are those most at risk, often interfering with economic interests linked to extractive industries and the construction of large infrastructure. i fully agree with the content of this resolution which, recalling the european union guidelines on human rights defenders, calls on the honduran authorities to comply with the law and ensure adequate protection for these people who defend the rights of others so selflessly.
in writing. ‒ in 2000, there were about 400 million internet users; today there are over 3 billion. in the last 15 years, the online world has changed dramatically. the european legislative instrument regulating it was more than 20 years old. this new regulation will make up for this mismatch. the main objectives of this regulation are twofold: on the one hand, to give consumers more control over their information and, on the other hand, to stimulate the digital internal market. this regulation will undoubtedly ensure greater respect for the rights of citizens, but it will not do away with the need for continuous awareness-raising and educational work, nor will it completely prevent the misuse of personal data. it will also undoubtedly stimulate economic development by harmonizing the rules in a market of 500 million. but it is not clear that it creates the ideal conditions for the flourishing of small and mediumsized enterprises which have to compete in a global market. in short, i certainly support the adoption of this regulation, which is a very important step, but its implementation will require close monitoring.
‒ the regulation aims to ensure that citizens have greater control over their data, to give greater clarity and legal certainty to businesses and to make transfers to countries outside the eu subject to stricter requirements. european rules on the protection of personal data - dating back to 1995, when less than 1% of europeans used the internet - need to be updated to respond to technological progress, globalisation and new methods of collecting, accessing and using data. the aim of this reform is to strengthen citizens' control over their data.
‒ this report represents a strengthening of the right to the protection of personal data, even if it is guaranteed by a unified legal framework. it proposes that the european commission should have as little interference as possible in its implementation. the new rules provide for the following measures: - improved access to their data people will receive more, clearer and more understandable information about how their data is processed; - the 'right to be forgotten' where a person no longer wants his data to be processed and, if there are no legitimate reasons for keeping it, can complain and have it deleted; - the right to know if your data has been hacked companies should notify the supervisory authority and the data subject of any personal data breaches that put individuals at risk. - the right to data portability will make it easier for individuals to transfer their personal data from one service provider to another. the proposed regulation provides that supervisory authorities may impose fines on companies that breach eu rules of up to 2% of their overall annual turnover.
in writing. ‒ directive 95/46/ec, the main legislative instrument on the protection of personal data in europe, was a milestone in the history of data protection. its objectives are to ensure the functioning of the single market and the effective protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons. however, this directive was adopted 21 years ago, when the internet was just beginning to take its first steps. in the new and challenging digital world we live in today, the rules in place do not ensure the degree of harmonisation and effectiveness necessary to guarantee the right to the protection of personal data. the proposed regulation modernises the principles laid down in the 1995 directive, adapting them to the digital age and harmonising data protection legislation at european level. data protection should be subject to strict standards to restore people's confidence in the way their personal data is used. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to strengthen individual rights and consolidate the eu's internal market, ensure stricter enforcement, simplify international transfers of personal data and introduce international standards on data protection. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the issue of personal data protection, regulated by directive 95/46/ec, was adopted 21 years ago. in view of the exponential growth and dominance of the digital world, that legal instrument, while the objectives of that directive remain valid, urgently needs updating to ensure the right to the protection of personal data. i believe that individual rights should be strengthened, that the application of the regulation should be subject to stricter enforcement, that there should be simplification of international transfers of personal data and the creation of international standards for data protection. i stress the importance of creating a single pan-european data protection legislation, which harmonises and replaces the 28 different national legislation and which should create an enabling environment for businesses, which does not hinder their economic growth and which fosters innovation.
‒ this report supports the strengthening of the right to the protection of personal data, even if it is guaranteed by a unified legal framework. it proposes that the commission should have as little interference as possible in its application and it is expected that the protection of personal data will be ensured. the new rules provide for the following measures: improving access to relevant data the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on data protection, in particular by ensuring that the data protection rules are applied in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. the 'right to be forgotten' - when a person no longer wants his or her data to be processed, and if there are no legitimate grounds for keeping it, he or she can obtain the deletion of the data; the right to know if your data has been hacked - companies should notify the supervisory authority and the data subject of any personal data breaches that put individuals at risk. the right to data portability will allow individuals to transfer their personal data more easily from one service provider to another. the proposed regulation provides that supervisory authorities may impose fines on companies that breach eu rules of up to 2% of their overall annual turnover.
‒ the european data protection rules date from 1995. it is necessary to ensure that users have greater control over their data and to subject transfers to countries outside the eu to stricter requirements.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, repealing directive 95/46/ec. the proposed regulation aims to modernise the principles laid down in the 1995 directive, adapting them to the digital age and harmonising data protection legislation at european level. i believe that data protection should naturally be subject to strict standards and should give citizens a feeling of security in the use of their personal data. the proposal for a regulation also aims to strengthen individual rights and consolidate the eu's internal market by ensuring stricter enforcement, simplifying international transfers of personal data and introducing international data protection standards. for all that is said, i voted in favour of this report.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules. we fear that, at this juncture, this regulation, which centralises procedures and removes the mechanisms for controlling citizens' personal data, could create the conditions for security derivatives that undermine rights, freedoms and guarantees.
‒ i voted in favour of the albrecht report on the protection of personal data, which aims to ensure that citizens have greater control over their data, to give greater clarity and legal certainty to businesses and to subject transfers to countries outside the eu to stricter requirements. european rules on the protection of personal data - dating back to 1995, when less than 1% of europeans used the internet - need to be updated to respond to technological progress, globalisation and new methods of collecting, accessing and using data. the aim of this reform is to strengthen citizens' control over their data.
in writing. ‒ as recent events have made tragically clear, cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, and in particular terrorism, is still lacking. this failure is and has been particularly evident in the sharing of information. without prejudice to the need for new responses, the lack of mutual trust has been clear for a long time. the lack of information that europol frequently faces or the under-utilisation of the schengen information system are prime examples. we will not 'create' more confidence by decree, we can strengthen it through instruments such as this directive, guaranteeing minimum standards in each member state. but this directive is all the more important as new systems are adopted and more and more information from citizens is processed. at the very least, this directive ensures that improper use can be corrected or punished. it should also be noted that this directive is thus in line with the new framework introduced by the lisbon treaty, i.e. without pillars and with parliament as co-legislator.
‒ the directive includes rules on the processing of data in the context of crime prevention. personal data comprise any information concerning a person, whether it concerns his private, professional or public life. this could be a name, a photograph, an e-mail address, banking information, social media posts, medical information, or the ip address of your computer. the reform covers, among other issues, the consent of the data subject, the right to erasure of data ('right to be forgotten'), the right to portability, the right to be informed about personal data breaches, the transfer of data to non-eu countries and the sanctions applicable to companies. companies that break the rules may have to pay fines of up to 4% of their annual turnover.
‒ the directive in question is part of the package of measures proposed by the european commission to reform data protection, which includes a general regulation. for our part, we consider it important to ensure a high and homogeneous level of protection of personal data of natural persons and to facilitate the exchange of such data between the competent authorities of the member states, in order to ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. to that end, the level of protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties should be equivalent in all member states. effective protection of personal data across the eu requires not only that the rights of data subjects and the obligations of data controllers be strengthened, but also that equivalent powers be conferred in the different member states to monitor and enforce the rules on the protection of personal data. the directive will enable police and judicial authorities to cooperate more effectively and more quickly, ensuring legal certainty.
‒ the data protection directive for police and judicial authorities is part of the data protection reform package proposed by the commission, which also includes a general data protection regulation. this package of measures aims to create a strong, coherent, comprehensive and modern data protection framework for the european union. it will benefit natural persons by strengthening their fundamental rights and freedoms with regard to the processing of their personal data and their trust in the digital world. it is essential to ensure a high and uniform level of protection of personal data of natural persons and to facilitate the exchange of such data between the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters as well as police cooperation. to that end, the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties must be equivalent in all member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the package of measures aimed at creating a comprehensive, uniform and harmonised data protection framework for the european union must ensure a high and homogeneous level of protection of personal data of natural persons and facilitate the exchange of such data between the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters as well as police cooperation. i believe that the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals, whether in the processing of personal data, investigation, detection and prosecution, or in the prevention or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, must be the same in all member states. in order to ensure the proper application of the regulation, the rights of data subjects and the obligations of data controllers will have to be strengthened, and national authorities will have to be supported and given greater powers.
‒ the directive in question is part of the package of measures proposed by the commission to reform data protection, which includes a general regulation. it is essential to ensure a high and uniform level of protection of personal data of natural persons and to facilitate the exchange of such data between the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters as well as police cooperation. to that end, the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties must be equivalent in all member states. the effective protection of personal data throughout the union requires not only that the rights of data subjects and the obligations of controllers be strengthened, but also that equivalent powers be conferred in the different member states to monitor and enforce the rules on the protection of personal data. the directive will enable police and judicial authorities to cooperate more effectively and more quickly, ensuring legal certainty.
‒ this report endorses the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha. i voted yes.
‒ the european data protection rules date from 1995. it is necessary to ensure that users have greater control over their data and to subject transfers to countries outside the eu to stricter requirements.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repeals council framework decision 2008/977/jha. the data protection directive for police and judicial authorities is part of the data protection reform package proposed by the commission, which also includes a general data protection regulation, with a view to creating a strong, coherent, comprehensive and modern data protection framework for the eu. the adoption of this directive will make it possible to strengthen cooperation between police and judicial authorities in a more rapid and effective manner, thus generating a greater sense of trust and legal certainty among the population. for the reasons stated above, i have voted in favour of adopting this report.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules. we fear that, at this juncture, this regulation, which centralises procedures and removes the mechanisms for controlling citizens' personal data, could create the conditions for security derivatives that undermine rights, freedoms and guarantees.
‒ i voted in favour of the albrecht report on the protection of personal data, which aims to ensure that citizens have greater control over their data, to give greater clarity and legal certainty to businesses and to subject transfers to countries outside the eu to stricter requirements. european rules on the protection of personal data - dating back to 1995, when less than 1% of europeans used the internet - need to be updated to respond to technological progress, globalisation and new methods of collecting, accessing and using data. the aim of this reform is to strengthen citizens' control over their data.
madam president, i have proposed that this proposal for a common passenger register be rejected because i believe it makes us all suspected terrorists. i really believe that there is a take-up of the fear we are currently experiencing to take away our rights and freedoms. all the authorities were aware of the suspects who ended up committing terrorist acts in the european space. in madrid, the terrorists were already known to the french and british authorities. in london, the terrorists were followed by the french police. in the first attack in brussels, the french terrorist was known to the french authorities. in the case of charlie hebdo, the terrorists were known to the british authorities. in the case of brussels, which we have recently experienced, the swedish authorities had information. so there is information on terror suspects, they end up committing the attacks, there is no exchange of information, there is no cooperation, and with this justification we end up becoming all suspects and keeping the flight logs of all passengers in the european union, hundreds of millions of euros this year, and we all become a territory of fear. terrorism knows no borders, madam president.
‒ the directive on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data requires air carriers to pass on to member states the data of travellers arriving or departing from the eu to help prevent and combat terrorism. provisions have been introduced to clarify the requirements for the retention, analysis, transfer and use of pnr data and to ensure the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. the new rules require air carriers to transfer passenger data from extra-eu flights (from a third country to an eu member state or vice versa) from their reservation systems to a specialised unit in the member state of arrival or departure, with a view to fighting serious crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ taking advantage of the legitimate feeling of insecurity caused by the recent attacks on european soil exacerbated by both the media and certain political forces the right and social democrats have made the previously rejected proposal for a pnr, a passenger identification register, be approved in plenary. in the light of recent events, the advocates of this system are using the usual rhetoric and under the pretext of "combating terrorism" to advocate the rapid implementation of the system as a way to prevent and prevent "terrorist attacks". it is to be seen whether any of these acts would have been avoided if the system had been in place. the proposal provides for the creation of passenger profiles to identify potential suspects of possible illegal acts by requiring airline data to be transferred to member states for a period of five years without guarantee of safeguarding. in practice, any citizen, european or foreign, travelling within the eu is considered a suspect from the outset, which justifies the collection and maintenance of data, which will allow, far beyond the fight against terrorism, to identify and create profiles, beyond crime, of trade unionists, political activists, among other social groups and individual citizens, serving a security vision and curtailing rights, freedoms and guarantees. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the passenger name record (pnr) directive as i consider it crucial to create a european information sharing system that follows common rules for all eu member states. i have reservations, however, about the final text, which was agreed and approved by the council and the european parliament, but in which many of the latter's demands were blocked by the member states. firstly, the sharing of information between member states is neither mandatory nor automatic, leaving it to the discretion of each member state to define what it considers 'necessary and relevant', which only consolidates mistrust between partners, reluctance to share information, inability to act effectively and in concert, against the very essence of what was intended by this directive. the directive also fails to cover the scope of application, by omitting the possibility for member states to regulate the transfer of pnr data in the case of private flights. we therefore run the risk of ending up with 28 different pnrs, without coordination and without a european action plan to prevent radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist networks.
‒ the pnr has been rejected by some on the left on the pretext of personal data protection, which in many cases travel agencies already have, but which the left wants to turn into absolute rights. they're not. and collective security is a more relevant right. it would be good if we could even think about what the victims would say if they could argue in this debate. i have even heard the extraordinary argument that in the recent attacks the terrorists were not from outside europe. the native-born terrorists are traveling too, they have to be controlled. when they are indoctrinated in syria and other countries, terrorists from home and abroad are one, in a criminal organization that has moral and material authors. they're all criminals. i would like to remind you that in the september 11 attacks, 19 terrorists hijacked the crews and passengers of 4 airplanes, murdered 3,000 people. the terrorists weren't from here, they were from out of town. the victims were from all over the world. i voted in favour, convinced that terrorism cannot be fought with fantasies or romantic proclamations.
‒ today we voted to create the passenger name record (pnr). after so many months of debate and constant blockages, i am pleased that the proposal put forward by the epp has finally been adopted with the support of the majority of the european parliament. while the pnr is not the answer to fighting terrorism, it is a key instrument to increase security in the european union and to prevent people from travelling to countries to join terrorist organisations and then returning to europe without any border controls. this is a measure that aims to strengthen the union's external borders, increase our security and improve the exchange of information in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ taking advantage of the legitimate feeling of insecurity caused by the recent attacks on european soil - exacerbated by both the media and the political forces of the social democracy to the extreme right - the right and the social democracy have made the previously rejected proposal for a pnr, a passenger identification register, approved in plenary. in the light of recent events, the advocates of this system are using the usual rhetoric and under the pretext of "combating terrorism" to advocate the rapid implementation of the system as a way to prevent and prevent "terrorist attacks". it is not yet proven that any of these acts would have been avoided if the system had been in place. the proposal provides for the creation of passenger profiles to identify potential suspects of possible illegal acts by requiring airline data to be transferred to member states for a period of five years without guarantee of safeguarding. in practice, any citizen, european or foreign, travelling within the eu is considered a suspect from the outset, which justifies the collection and maintenance of data, which will allow, far beyond the fight against terrorism, to identify and create profiles, beyond crime, of trade unionists, political activists, among others, serving the security posture and curtailing of freedoms and rights. we voted against it.
‒ the nature of criminal and terrorist activity has been constantly evolving in recent years - the european union has become bolder and more sophisticated, showing an increasingly transnational nature. in the face of the high cost of crime, the data show that citizens increasingly want to see stronger action at eu level to fight organised crime and terrorism. i therefore welcome the vote in favour of this report, which has two main objectives: to harmonise the obligation for air carriers operating flights between a third country and the territory of at least one member state to transmit passenger identification data to law enforcement agencies and to define the criteria according to which those same agencies may use the information, in particular for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences and serious crime. the proposed system is mandatory, giving each member state two years to set up an operational system. however, member states are allowed to use joint systems for cost-sharing purposes.
‒ passenger name record (pnr) data aggregates information provided by passengers and collected by air carriers during the booking of tickets (name, address, telephone, credit card number, baggage, itinerary). they cover travel from member states to third countries and vice versa. the aim is to combat serious crime and terrorism. in an ideal world, this would be an unnecessary measure. unfortunately, this is not an ideal world. it should be noted that during the negotiations with the council additional safeguards relating to data protection were added.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. the directive, which is due to be transposed into the member states' legal systems within two years, will require air carriers to pass on to member states the data of travellers arriving in or departing from the eu, with the aim of helping to prevent and combat terrorism. the collective security of all of us must take precedence over the protection of personal data and i believe that this is an appropriate means of preventing, detecting, investigating and suppressing potential terrorist threats or serious crime, such as human trafficking, membership of a criminal organisation, child pornography and arms trafficking. the legislative proposal also sought to improve aspects relating to ensuring the confidentiality and anonymity of passenger data and the retention period for personal data (5 years).
‒ the criminal attacks in paris on 7 january and 13 november 2015 and in brussels on 22 march 2016 have fuelled the rhetorical debate on the introduction of the passengers name record (pnr) system. the system's advocates, spurred on by events, are strongly advocating, under the pretext of 'combating terrorism', the rapid implementation of the system as a way of preventing and avoiding 'terrorist attacks' such as those in paris and brussels. the facts make it clear, however, that none of those criminal acts in paris or brussels would have been prevented if this system had been in place. furthermore, there are no studies to date that justify the hypothetical effectiveness of the implementation of the pnr system in the light of reality. it is true that the pnr is a system which infringes the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. i therefore vote against.
‒ i voted in favour of the kirkhope report on the use of passenger identification data, which requires air carriers to pass on to member states the data of travellers arriving or departing from the eu to help prevent and combat terrorism, because it is a compromise between the right to security and the right to privacy of citizens. this data consists of information provided by passengers and collected by air carriers when booking tickets, such as name, address, telephone number, credit card number, luggage, travel itinerary, (there are 19 categories of data listed in an annex to the directive). the new rules require air carriers to transfer passenger data from extra-eu flights (from a third country to an eu member state or vice versa) from their reservation systems to a specialised unit in the member state of arrival or departure, with a view to fighting serious crime and terrorism.
madam president, i find it shameful that, 11 days after the panama scandal, the panama papers, this house has passed a directive that makes life even easier for multinationals and much harder for whistleblowers, journalists and citizens. the reason is that this directive not only protects the specific interests of multinationals, but it also completely changes the burden of proof, placing it on the side of journalists and whistleblowers. it also makes it harder to access information. so after lux leaks, swiss leaks, the panama papers, we may never see any of these scandals again, because those who turn what is public information into public information are now criminalized and fined. i would say, madam president, that intellectual property is already protected. so we didn't have to go into trade secrets, because they're all about information, and in that sense we're a little bit poorer in our democracy.
‒ trade secrets play an important role in protecting the exchange of knowledge between companies, especially smes, and research institutions within the internal market in the context of research and development and innovation. trade secrets are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and start-ups, which often lack the expertise and financial power to obtain, manage, enforce and defend intellectual property rights. i support the le grip report because i believe that it is legitimate to protect trade secrets and that this new instrument will bring legal clarity and a level playing field to all european companies, increasing their interest in developing research and innovation activities and deterring the illegal disclosure of trade secrets. i welcome the fact that a balanced text has been reached which does not prejudice fundamental rights and freedoms, the public interest, in particular public safety, consumer protection, public health, environmental protection, worker mobility and journalistic information/investigation. the whistleblower will also enjoy adequate protection.
‒ protection against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is essential to allowing a fair business environment for businesses. however, companies are more interested in sharing trade secrets than in keeping them confidential. transparency and access to information are also necessary to inform important public policies, such as those on the environment, health and consumer protection. i therefore believe that a fair balance must be struck between not allowing complaints of improper acquisition or misuse of trade secrets and preventing information which is to be shared and exchanged from being kept secret by overly broad protection.
‒ this directive aims to protect knowledge and trade secrets from unlawful use, acquisition and disclosure, in particular by protecting companies and non-commercial research institutions. the proposal states that investment in intellectual capital generates competitiveness and innovative performance in the market and thus enhances financial returns, which is one of the fundamental motives of research. if there is no safety in this process, it is argued, innovation would be impeded. we are talking about protecting small and mediumsized enterprises, when we know that the safeguarding of commercial secrecy and the extension of its scope serve above all the large economic groups. the trade secret is absolute, and everything must be subject to it, even legal proceedings. all in the defense of the supreme interests of capital. the role of this directive in promoting the digital single market is, of course, mentioned. the commission proposal is not improved by the european parliament's amendments, which essentially confirm the logic of subsidizing the economic and financial interests of large companies, while disregarding the rights, freedoms and guarantees of workers, consumers and citizens in general. none of the positions fully guarantees the safeguarding of the rights of workers, whistleblowers, journalists. they do not guarantee the rights of citizens, their health or the environment. we voted against it.
‒ europe has the assets to become a world leader in science and innovation. achieving scientific quality is not only the goal of researchers, it is also a source of important gains for both the public and private sectors. however, business investment in research and development (r & d) is insufficient compared to that in its major trading partners, notably the united states and japan. insufficient investment by enterprises in r&d hampers the introduction of new products, processes, services and know-how. it is therefore desirable to improve the conditions for innovative activities by enterprises. as part of its wider strategy 'europe 2020', the commission has committed to creating an innovation union to protect knowledge-based investments, reduce cost fragmentation and make europe a more rewarding place for innovation. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the protection of know-how and confidential information must be protected, as they provide a competitive advantage for the companies that create or hold the knowledge. companies value this know-how and confidential information in the same way as they value patents and other forms of intellectual property rights, and use confidentiality as a tool for managing business competitiveness and research innovation. i am in favour of the creation of rules aimed at harmonising and standardising national legal systems in order to ensure a sufficient and consistent level of redress in the internal market in the event of the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of a trade secret. it should be noted that member states should respect the safeguards laid down in this directive when designing the combination of criminal and civil and commercial measures in order to ensure an appropriate balance between the protection of trade secrets and the freedoms of establishment, expression and information.
‒ the directive in question aims to protect knowledge and trade secrets from unlawful use, acquisition and disclosure, in particular by protecting companies and non-commercial research institutions. the proposal states that investment in intellectual capital generates competitiveness and innovative performance in the market and thus enhances the financial return which is one of the fundamental motives of research. if there is no security in this process, they say, there is a barrier to innovation. we are talking about protecting small and mediumsized enterprises, when we know that the safeguarding of commercial secrecy and the extension of its scope is primarily for the benefit of the large economic groups. the trade secret is absolute, and everything must be subject to it, even legal proceedings. all in the defense of the supreme interests of capital. the role of this directive in promoting the digital single market is, of course, to be mentioned. the commission proposal is not improved by parliament's amendments, which essentially confirm the logic of subsidizing the economic and financial interests of companies, while disregarding the rights, freedoms and guarantees of workers, consumers and citizens in general. none of the positions fully guarantees the safeguarding of the rights of workers, whistleblowers, journalists. they do not guarantee the rights of citizens, their health or the environment. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this directive lays down rules on the protection against the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of know-how and confidential business information (trade secrets). businesses and non-commercial research institutions invest in the acquisition, development and application of know-how and information, which are the currency of the knowledge economy and provide a competitive advantage. this investment in the generation and application of intellectual capital determines their competitiveness and innovative performance in the market and, consequently, their return on investment. i welcome the positive vote on this directive because, apart from the above, it will not affect the freedom of movement of workers or the freedom of establishment. it is essential to raise awareness, especially among smes, of the possibility of recourse and redress in the event of the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of trade secrets.
the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. it's the best possible outcome. at this point the text could no longer be changed in plenary. the s&ds would not have a majority to reject the directive and the only alternative would be a renegotiation without the s&ds.
‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of know-how and confidential business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. in the era of globalisation, with increased exposure of trade secrets to theft, espionage and other techniques of misappropriation, it is important to create conditions for enhanced protection of trade secrets, which are a highly relevant component for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for those in their start-up phase and which lack protection of their intellectual property rights. more broadly, this proposal is part of the commitment to create a single market in intellectual property, which is solid, coherent, effective in legal clarity and on equal terms for all european companies, defending their legitimate trade secrets more effectively throughout the european union, without endangering the public interest and security or infringing the rights, fundamental freedoms and protection of consumers.
‒ this legislation represents a concession to the economic and financial interests of companies. we voted against it. it's not clear what trade secret means. the rights of workers, whistleblowers, journalists are not fully safeguarded. the rights of citizens, their health and the environment are not fully guaranteed. it is a project which is essentially based on economic interests and which ignores the rights, freedoms and guarantees of workers, consumers and citizens in general.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include a new provision on the protection of trade secrets and know-how against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. i welcome the proposals put forward by the socialist group which have substantially improved the original text proposed by the european commission, particularly as regards the exclusion of freedom of the press and the guarantees achieved as regards the mobility of workers, the right to information and safeguards regarding the disclosure of confidential information to public authorities. i would also stress the call made by the socialist group for the european commission to urgently propose a directive on the protection of whistleblowers.
‒ the revenue and expenditure forecast of the european parliament's budget for 2017 has security and cybersecurity, the phasing out of the irish language derogation, ongoing measures to give meps more means to fulfil their mandate and to make parliament attractive to the public and visitors as its main objectives. the amount proposed for implementation is eur 1 910 073 000, representing an overall increase of 3,9% over the 2016 budget, of which 1,7% is considered as ordinary expenditure. the overall increase is further justified by the additional extraordinary investments of eur 47,6 million to strengthen security and cybersecurity, corresponding to 2,6% of the overall increase.
‒ this report stresses the importance of the european parliament being efficient in the use of public resources and transparent in its accountability, a concern which, so broadly stated, we share. the dematerialization and digitisation of files should, however, always avoid any kind of deletion. but we must once again denounce the harmful effects of cuts in budget lines such as translation and interpretation services, which seriously undermine the functioning and working conditions of the institution and call into question the principle of multilingualism. we are sensitive to security issues but we do not encourage any security drift, including here in parliament. we firmly reject the fears about the chauffeur service and the decision to internalise these services. we defend the interests of those who work. it is unacceptable and shameful that parliament should promote precariousness among its workers. drivers employed by service companies are subject to immense precariousness and unfair inequality and discrimination. the european parliament must set an example by respecting the rights of its workers and guaranteeing them conditions of stability.
‒ the 2017 budget proposed in the secretary-general's report is marked by the continuation and intensification of the institution's policy of making efficiency gains in all areas where this is possible without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff. four priority objectives are proposed by the secretary-general for the 2017 budget, namely: security and cybersecurity, phasing out the irish language derogation, ongoing measures to give members more means to fulfil their mandate and making parliament attractive to the public and visitors. in the current political and security context of terrorist attacks in europe, the 2017 budgetary procedure should result in increased security and cybersecurity of parliament. we must therefore find the best solutions to achieve the proposed objectives, so that we can maintain the excellence of the legislation and the commitments made to all european citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i would like to vote in favour of this report overall, with two points in particular: the current political and security environment resulting from terrorist attacks in europe requires increased security and cybersecurity for parliament in the 2017 budgetary procedure; and i stress the importance of the european parliament being able to control its own expenditure in order to be credible to the institutions and the citizens.
‒ the report stresses the importance of efficiency in the use of public resources and the need for full transparency in accountability. the dematerialization and digitisation of files should, however, always avoid any kind of deletion. we do not follow the systematic approach to austerity, continuing to cut costs in the same areas, just as we do not subscribe to the ongoing security drift which is also reaching the ep and which is fortifying and closing access to a house which should be open. who should not, does not fear, they say. and this house owes a lot. the reduction in staff is incomprehensible when the proponents of this project claim an allegedly increasing importance and centrality of the ep (no more than smoke). this, together with the increasing use of service companies and the precariousness of work in the european parliament, speaks well of the options of the right-wing majority and social democracy with regard to workers and their rights.
‒ parliament's budget for 2017 was established by the secretary-general and integrates security and cybersecurity, the phasing out of the irish language derogation, ongoing measures to give meps more resources to fulfil their mandate and make parliament attractive to the public and visitors. however, and given the current political and security context arising from terrorist attacks in europe, the 2017 budgetary procedure should provide for the enhancement of parliament's security and cybersecurity. however, this report considers that, in view of the economic slowdown in the member states, the level of inflation forecast for 2017 should not be considered as the main indicator for increases in current expenditure. the report thus sets the overall level of its revenue and expenditure forecast for 2017 at eur 1 900 873 000, corresponding to a total increase of 3,4% over the 2016 budget, and i voted in favour of it.
‒ we have noted in this report the importance of being efficient in the use of public resources and fully transparent in accountability. the dematerialization and digitisation of files should, however, always avoid any kind of deletion. what we do not follow is this austerity trend which always imposes a reduction in costs which is always felt in the same headings. we're sensitive to the issue of security, but we don't feed this security drift that makes this house look more and more like a prison or a fortress. we do not understand this reduction of staff at the same time as the european parliament is being given increasing importance and centrality. we are not following the concerns about the chauffeur service either. just as we defend the interests of those who work, we also want this house to set an example by giving stability to its workers.
in the light of the recent events in turkey, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in turkey. the resolution points to the undeniable backsliding in respect for democracy and the rule of law, deplores the backsliding in the area of freedom of expression and opinion, underlines that turkey is the country with the highest number of journalists in detention, is concerned about the increase in corruption (highlighted by transparency international), condemns the use of anti-terrorism legislation to settle scores and unlawful pressure on the opposition and is alarmed at the high levels of violence against women, among many other aspects. however, the resolution expresses an optimistic view of the possibility of turkey joining the eu, which i cannot follow at the moment, and i shall therefore abstain in the final vote.
‒ accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005, but their outcome remains open. the country has committed itself to respect the copenhagen criteria, to undertake appropriate and effective reforms and to progressively align with the eu acquis. however, the report notes the backsliding in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey, the considerable slowdown in the overall pace of reforms in recent years and the backsliding in certain areas such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and expression and respect for human rights. i therefore believe that the commission should reassess the way in which the negotiations have been conducted to date and how relations and cooperation between the eu and turkey can be improved and intensified.
‒ we note in this report the more careful and subtle tone with which the accession process is approached. a demonstration of the hypocrisy with which both are treated in terms of their geostrategic and political relevance. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. this resolution praises and accepts it, whitewashing it with apparent 'concerns'. we recall that progress in these negotiations was the bargaining chip for the conclusion of the agreement. an agreement that is implemented with criminal actions by both the eu and turkey, in clear conflict with international law. the text omits issues such as state terrorism, the conflict with the kurds, or support for the so-called islamic state in syria. the resolution does, however, set out some guidelines for the need to resolve the conflict in cyprus, which still has part of its territory occupied by turkish military forces, a perspective which could contribute to the necessary and hoped for reunification of cyprus, and which we support and value. however, in view of the other provisions of the report, we voted against.
‒ turkey has been the constant target of several terrorist attacks by the self-proclaimed islamic state in recent months. the continuing war in syria has led to a steady influx of refugees into the country, which makes a structured policy towards them necessary. according to unhcr figures, turkey is currently hosting the largest refugee population in the world, some 2.7 million. this solidarity and effort must be shared by all countries and an integration policy appropriate to the vulnerability of refugees must be pursued at multilateral level. despite turkey's important role in trying to achieve a certain stability in the region, i note certain setbacks in respect for democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that the dialogue between the union and turkey must continue to call for the necessary efforts to ensure the application of a rule of law which respects human dignity and promotes adequate human development.
in this report we note the most careful and subtle tone with which the accession process is approached, a demonstration of the hypocrisy with which both are treated in terms of their geostrategic and political relevance. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a member of the european union. this resolution praises and accepts it, whitewashing it with apparent 'concerns'. we recall that the progress made in these negotiations was the bargaining chip for the conclusion of the hideous agreement. an agreement that is implemented with criminal actions by both the eu and turkey in clear confrontation with international law. the text omits it, but we do not forget the repressive stance of the turkish authorities, the state terrorism they perpetrate, the conflict with the kurds, or the support for the so-called islamic state in syria. the resolution does, however, set out some guidelines for the need to resolve the conflict in cyprus, which still has part of its territory occupied by turkish military forces, a perspective which could contribute to the necessary and hoped for reunification of cyprus, and which we support and value. we voted against it.
‒ accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005 and the opening of these negotiations was the starting point of a long process, the outcome of which remains open. the report states that the eu should continue to be the anchor of reforms in turkey, given the transformative power of the accession negotiations and the enlargement process. however, in view of the backsliding in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey, the report expresses deep concern at the considerable slowdown in the overall pace of reforms in turkey in recent years and the fact that there has been a backsliding in certain areas such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and expression, and respect for human rights and the rule of law, moving further and further away from the fulfilment of the criteria to which the applicant countries must adhere. the report stresses, however, that turkey is an important strategic partner for the eu and that active and credible negotiations will provide an appropriate framework to exploit the full potential of relations between the two parties. i voted yes.
‒ this report expresses, in the light of the backsliding in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey, its deep concern at the considerable slowdown in the overall pace of reforms in turkey in recent years, with substantial backsliding in certain areas such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and expression, and respect for human rights and the rule of law, moving further and further away from the copenhagen criteria to which the applicant countries must adhere.
in writing. ‒ this report is ambiguous. on the one hand, turkey's position on a number of fundamental rights violations is criticised. on the other hand, measures that are deeply negative are praised. we can't agree on a lot of things. examples of this are the migration and refugee policy, the situation of the kurds and the attacks the turks have carried out, the neighbourhood policy and the turkish approach to the war in syria, the financing of terrorist groups, the policy towards the cyprus situation.
‒ i consider the report on albania's progress to be well done and balanced. the report notes progress in judicial reform, the strategy for modernising the public administration, the fight against organised crime and religious tolerance. however, the report also highlights widespread corruption in education, healthcare, the judiciary, public procurement, land use planning and public administration, problems with the electoral system (highlighted by the osce/odihr) and ill-treatment of suspects in police stations, among many other aspects. i cannot, however, vote in favour of a report which is somewhat optimistic about the possibility of albania joining the eu, and i shall therefore abstain in the final vote.
‒ the echoes that are coming in show that there is a political consensus and broad public support for the accession process in albania which needs the reform process to move forward in a sustained manner, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime, administrative reform and the electoral system, as well as human rights. the report takes stock of the continued progress made by albania in reforming the key priorities needed for the opening of accession negotiations and therefore calls on the government, parliament and political parties to maintain the momentum of reform and accelerate the implementation of reforms.
‒ the report repeats the usual set of considerations on eu integration processes, in this case to deal with the accession of albania. as usual, the conditions for accession are identified, and an attitude of interference and limitation of the sovereignty of the countries and peoples applying for eu membership is adopted, insisting on the imposition of so-called structural reforms, in particular in matters such as justice, public administration, the electoral system, economic governance, or the fight against corruption and organised crime. the eu must align its positions with those of the united states, particularly on foreign and border policy. we consider unacceptable the arrogant way in which the recitals and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are set out. the peoples have a legitimate right to decide on their future and to choose freely and sovereignly whether or not to join the eu, as well as to decide on their strategies for economic and social development. the eu has no right to impose policies which are contrary to the interests and aspirations of the people. we voted against it.
‒ albania was granted eu candidate status in june 2014 and has since made efforts to achieve the necessary defined reforms, focusing on five priority areas: the judiciary, public administration, corruption, organised crime and human rights. despite the efforts made to implement reforms, some challenges remain for albania in order to open accession negotiations, namely the promotion of a more constructive political dialogue both in inter-party and inter-institutional relations, the defence of fundamental rights, the protection of ethnic minorities, freedom of the press, the transparency of the electoral system, the fight against corruption, the improvement of the education system, the strengthening of the protection of human rights and the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. i am voting in favour of this, as i believe it is important that the albanian state monitors the implementation of the reforms, since the success of their implementation is essential for the opening of eu accession negotiations.
‒ the report replicates the traditional set of considerations on eu integration processes, in this case albania. it continues to identify obstacles to membership, in the form of interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the eu accession process, insisting on the implementation of structural reforms, in particular in matters such as justice, public administration, the electoral system, economic governance, or the fight against corruption and organised crime. the eu must align its positions with those of the united states, particularly on foreign and border policy. we consider unacceptable the arrogant way in which the recitals and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are set out. the people are deprived of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies for economic and social development. that is the eu's matrix. one in which the citizens' decision-making power is removed in order to impose policies which are contrary to their interests and desires. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ albania has made steady progress towards eu accession and this report encourages the government, parliament and political parties to accelerate the pace and implementation of reforms, and urges the government to move quickly with a thorough reform of the judicial system and to implement these reforms correctly and in a timely manner. the report also highlights some important factors for eu accession, such as the importance of all political forces engaging in a more constructive and genuine political dialogue to enable the adoption and implementation of key reforms, through a democratic political culture that includes openness to dialogue, negotiation, commitment and the total exclusion of boycotts and radicalism. the document also states that sustainable cooperation in parliament between the government and the opposition is essential to meet the accession criteria. i voted yes.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of albania. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ according to the report, there are still 84 500 internally displaced persons, as well as a huge number of refugees from bosnia and herzegovina in neighbouring countries, across europe and around the world. this situation must be reflected in the challenges and progress made by the country towards future membership. strong political support is an essential factor in making the country's institutional framework more effective and therefore the authorities must demonstrate their determination to pursue institutional, economic and social reforms. the important role of civil society in consolidating peace and reconciliation and the participation of young people in intercultural dialogue and exchange is an aspect that the bosnian political authorities should not overlook. the significant contributions of cultural activists, artists, writers and academics are important for promoting dialogue and understanding between different groups in society.
‒ the report replies to the usual set of considerations on eu integration processes, in this case referring to bosnia and herzegovina. it identifies obstacles to membership, in a clear position of interference and disrespect for the sovereignty of the countries and peoples applying for eu membership, insisting on the implementation of structural reforms, in particular in matters such as justice, public administration, the electoral system, economic governance, or the fight against corruption and organised crime. the report calls for alignment of the country's positions with those of the eu, in particular with foreign and border policies, as well as security and defence policies. we consider unacceptable the arrogant way in which the recitals and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are set out. the peoples have a legitimate right to decide on their future and to choose freely and sovereignly whether or not to join the eu, as well as to decide on their strategies for economic and social development. the eu has no right to impose policies which are contrary to the interests and aspirations of the people. we voted against it.
‒ since 1999, the european union has established close relations with the countries of the western balkans region as part of its stabilisation and association policy, on the basis of stabilisation and association agreements which anticipate the accession processes of the countries of this region, such as the agreement concluded between the european communities, their member states and bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia and herzegovina formalised its application for eu membership in february 2016. the commitment to accession implies the adoption of institutional, economic and social reforms to bring its reality closer to eu standards, in particular the approximation of socioeconomic level and respect for the principles of the rule of law, in order to ensure better integration. i am therefore voting in favour of this, because i consider it crucial that a reform programme be drawn up and monitored so that bosnia-herzegovina meets the criteria for further integration.
‒ the report replies to the usual set of considerations on the eu integration processes, in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. it continues to identify obstacles to membership, in the form of interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the eu accession process, insisting on the implementation of structural reforms, in particular in matters such as justice, public administration, the electoral system, economic governance, or the fight against corruption and organised crime. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome. we consider unacceptable the arrogant way in which the recitals and the conditions required to meet the requirements for the integration of the country are set out. the people are deprived of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies for economic and social development. that is the eu's matrix. one in which the citizens' decision-making power is removed in order to impose policies which are contrary to their interests and desires. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ this report welcomes the presentation of bosnia and herzegovina's application for eu membership on 15 february 2016. however, it stressed the need to pursue constitutional, legal and political reforms that would transform bosnia and herzegovina into a fully effective, inclusive and functional state, guaranteeing equality and democratic representation for all its peoples and citizens. it also stressed the importance of ensuring that all citizens could stand for election, be elected and hold office at all political levels, in equal circumstances and irrespective of their ethnic or religious origins. it should be stressed that the authorities must actively promote not only the principles of legitimate representation, federalism, decentralisation and subsidiarity, but also european values and the importance of the european perspective. i voted yes.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union. far beyond the evaluation of the process, it points to a wide range of conditions for accession, which confirm the extent of the interference and loss of sovereignty imposed on countries and peoples in the process of eu accession, in particular on issues such as justice, the internal and political organisation of the country, the imposition of reforms such as the pact for growth and employment - and we know well what is behind these pacts of aggression - the requirement of aligning the positions of that country with those of the eu. we consider unacceptable the paternalistic attitude with which the considerations and conditions required to satisfy the requirements for the integration of the country are set out, depriving the peoples of their legitimate right to decide their future, which includes the free and sovereign choice of eu membership, but also the strategies of economic and social development. for these reasons, we voted against.
‒ the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu has been increasing in recent years, standing at 122.6 million. in 2013, 16,7% of the eu population were at risk of poverty after social transfers, 9,6% were in severe material deprivation and 10,7% of households were in the category 'very low labour intensity'. the report also found that 10% of eu citizens were in arrears on their utility bills, 12% of eu citizens were unable to keep their homes adequately heated and 16% of the eu population lived in homes with leaky roofs and damp walls. i agree that an integrated strategy to combat the various forms of poverty must be adopted, through a holistic approach linking economic, labour, education, energy and transport policies with social policies based on best practice.
‒ the increase of 5 million in the number of people at risk of poverty between 2008 and 2013, to a total of 122.6 million people across the european union, is very significant. the number of people with severe material deprivation has increased to 45 million, as has the number of people who cannot cope with unexpected expenses. the report focuses in this context on the hardships faced by households, unable to cope with the burden of household electricity, gas and water, which have increased significantly in recent years as a result of privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation. this situation has a particular impact on the elderly and children, because of the inability of certain households to pay for heating, with the disastrous consequences that result. the report suggests a range of support measures: reducing energy bills and investing in savings measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for every person; and increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion. it also stresses the importance of access to public services and the inalienable right to water. despite a framework that is not distinct from the eu's macroeconomic policies, the report has essentially positive aspects.
‒ the cost of basic and essential goods and services has risen rapidly in recent years in many eu countries, resulting in an increase in household overheads. there are groups more vulnerable to this increase, such as single-parent families, older women, migrant women and people with disabilities. it is important to note that the number of people at risk of or in poverty or social exclusion has increased, despite the europe 2020 strategy's objective of reducing the number of people in this category by at least 20 million. i believe that the eu, like the member states, should redouble its efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion by creating a uniform, holistic strategy against the various forms of poverty.
‒ the increase of 5 million in the number of people at risk of poverty between 2008 and 2013, to a total of 122.6 million people across the european union, is very significant. the number of people with severe material deprivation has increased to 45 million, as has the number of people who cannot cope with unexpected expenses. the report focuses in this context on the hardships faced by households, unable to cope with the burden of household electricity, gas and water, which have increased significantly in recent years as a result of privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation. this situation has a particular impact on the elderly and children, because of the inability of certain households to pay for heating, with the disastrous consequences that result. the report suggests a range of support measures: reducing energy expenditure and investing in savings measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for every person; increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion. it also stresses the importance of access to public services and the inalienable right to water. despite a framework aligned with the eu's macroeconomic policy, the report has essentially positive elements. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu increased from 117 to 122.6 million people. this report states that one way to contribute to solving the problem is through energy saving and improved efficiency in housing. in 2015, 10% of eu citizens had late payments on their utility bills; in 2014, 12% of eu citizens could not keep their home adequately heated and 16% of the eu population lived in homes with leaky roofs and damp walls. the report invites the commission to carry out an impact assessment of minimum income systems in the eu and to consider further measures taking into account the economic and social circumstances of each member state. it also called for more effective use of the european structural and investment funds by national, regional and local authorities and invited the commission and the member states to hold a summit on poverty reduction, extreme poverty, social exclusion and access to a decent life. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ poverty levels in the eu are unacceptably high. the increase in poverty is directly linked to the financial crisis and the resulting austerity policies. the commission and the member states must now work towards the anti-poverty objectives. a minimum income above 60% of the national average wage in all member states and an energy observatory (for energy poverty) are some of the measures envisaged.
‒ the report focuses on the hardships faced by households in the current context of poverty, unable to cope with housing costs, particularly electricity, gas and water (which have been increasing as a result of privatisation and deregulation). the report calls for a number of support measures: reducing energy expenditure and investing in energy saving measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for each person; and increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion. it also mentions the importance of access to public services and the right to water as something that can be transferred. the report is therefore considered to have essentially positive elements, notwithstanding the framework (europe 2020, european semester), but not valued as such throughout the framework. the group proposes a vote in favour, and it is proposed that we also vote in favour.
‒ micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (msmes) are the backbone of all market economies, but face much heavier regulatory burdens in developing countries than in the european union. the private sector is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies, generating 90% of jobs and incomes in developing countries; it also accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries and has the capacity to create a sustainable basis for domestic resource mobilisation, reducing inequalities. i therefore agree that private investment in developing countries, if properly regulated, can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals, and the commission should remain engaged in the 2030 agenda discussions, while recognising the diversity of the private sector and the challenges to reducing poverty for the most marginalised and hard-to-reach.
‒ overall, the report shows a greater concern with creating favourable conditions for businesses in developing countries than with supporting sovereign development free from the constraints of 'the outstretched hand'. there is also an unmistakable neocolonialist and neoliberal vision. public-private partnerships (ppps) are emerging as an inevitability, with the need to extend them to more sectors of activity being affirmed. in other words, the idea is to export (impose?) a development model based on the anti-social and neoliberal policies implemented in the european union. although some improvements were made in the course of the debate on the report, it is a bad report. here are some of the ideas it contains: - smes face too heavy a regulatory burden in developing countries (we add: compromising business opportunities for european companies); - ppps have been concentrated in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential of sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, healthcare and property rights remains largely untapped; - clear and unjustified privilege of the private sector over the public sector, particularly in relation to eu support,- advocate for the 'modernization' of regulatory frameworks by creating a favourable environment for private initiatives. among other negative aspects.
‒ the main objective of eu development cooperation, under article 208 tfeu, is to eradicate poverty and it should be conducted within the framework of the principles and objectives of the union's external action. article 3 (5) of the treaty on european union provides that the eu's objective in its relations with the outside world is to contribute to sustainable development, solidarity and mutual respect, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, and that the private sector has the potential to contribute to sustainable and efficient development in the long term. development is primarily the responsibility of the state, the framework for development aid should be defined by governments and this task is primarily the responsibility of the public sector, but it should be stressed that the fight against poverty requires public policies as well as the involvement of the private sector, since it exerts a major influence on society and development. i am in favour of increased private sector involvement in eu development policy and projects.
‒ overall, the report shows a greater concern with creating favourable conditions for businesses in developing countries than with supporting sovereign development free from the constraints of 'the outstretched hand'. there is also an unmistakable neocolonialist and neoliberal vision. public-private partnerships (ppps) are emerging as an inevitability, with the need to extend them to more sectors of activity being affirmed. in other words, the idea is to export (impose?) a development model based on the anti-social and neoliberal policies implemented in the european union. although some improvements were made in the course of the debate on the report, it is a bad report. here are some of the ideas it contains: - smes face too heavy a regulatory burden in developing countries (we add: compromising business opportunities for european companies); - ppps have been concentrated in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential of sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, healthcare and property rights remains largely untapped; - clear and unjustified privilege of the private sector over the public sector, particularly in relation to eu support;- advocate for the 'modernization' of regulatory frameworks by creating a favourable environment for private initiatives. among other negative aspects.
‒ the private sector is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies, generating 90% of jobs and incomes in developing countries, which represents 84% of gdp. this report recognises that private investment in developing countries, if properly regulated, can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals. the report therefore urges the eu and the member states to develop a concrete strategy to ensure that the private sector is aligned with the development priorities of national governments and civil society in developing countries. the document calls on the european institutions and bodies to establish a clear, structured, transparent and accountable framework governing partnerships and alliances with the private sector in developing countries. in parallel, it calls for the creation at eu level of sectoral and multilateral platforms bringing together the private sector, csos, ngos, think tanks, partner governments, donors, cooperative organisations, social enterprises and other stakeholders to overcome the lack of trust between partners and to address the challenges arising from collaborative development interventions. i voted yes.
‒ the crucial role of the private sector in development is recognised and positively assessed, but without ignoring the need to frame its work and ensure that poverty reduction is its primary objective when involved in development.
‒ this is yet another report aimed at identifying the real causes of poverty and development, which are rooted in the nature of capitalism and its predatory nature. in advocating private enterprise and public-private partnerships, it is essentially to ensure the maintenance of a system which is not able to respond to the needs and desires of mankind. only the overthrow of this system, with its replacement by a planned, mixed economy at the service of man, that is, of socialist society, will be able to reverse this course of underdevelopment, war and dependence.
mr president, commissioner, the partial suspension of schengen is one of the most negative consequences of the refugee crisis we are facing. the european union has not been able to tackle this very serious problem. but when i talk about the european union, i am not talking about the european commission, because in fact the european commission has been trying to come up with a set of solutions to deal with the refugee crisis. that cannot be underestimated here. the problem is the behaviour of some member states. in fact, what we are seeing at the moment is the fact that several member states of the european union are adopting behaviour which objectively violates the spirit underlying the european project. we see every day that governments in several member states are now promoting a discourse of exclusion, an ultra-nationalist discourse, often even a xenophobic discourse. this has very negative consequences. one of them is precisely the one we are discussing here today, and it has to do with the suspension of the schengen rules. schengen is vital to the european project. one of the pillars of the european project is precisely the principle of free movement. and before we even analyse the negative economic impact that results, we have to focus on the essential issue, which is the european project. and this european project is being called into question at this moment by this kind of behaviour. but there are also very negative consequences, which have already been mentioned here, from a strictly economic and strictly financial point of view. and so i call on the european commission to continue its efforts - which it has been developing - to draw the attention of the various member states to the need to remain true to the european spirit.
mr president, we are talking about borders, schengen and the migrant crisis, and we must therefore talk about the mediterranean. the mediterranean sea is now the deadliest area on the planet for migrants. without safe and legal means of reaching europe, thousands of people are thrown into the hands of smugglers and traffickers, risking their lives in boats that hardly deserve the name. we must not forget that the european union's maritime borders in the mediterranean are external borders and that, unlike land borders, they cannot be closed or walled up, as many might wish. the maritime transport sector has been at the forefront of search and rescue operations, and in the first half of 2015 alone, merchant ships were responsible for rescuing almost a third of the migrants rescued in the mediterranean, putting this sector under enormous pressure. commissioner, i think that all of this makes it necessary to stress the importance of a serious, holistic and concerted approach by the european union to the migrant crisis in the mediterranean, and to stress the importance of the work carried out by the european maritime safety agency in this field, whose role must be strengthened.
for the gue/ngl group europe is currently at an impasse. cohesion policy died for lack of means. the budgetary treaty and economic governance prevent national governments from being able to move forward with policies to revive their economies. in short, we are at an impasse and there is no prospect within the european institutions of a relaunch of economic growth on a solid basis. in this context, the eib's performance, with some eur 75 billion invested and 400 enterprises supported, represents only a drop in the bucket compared to the investment gap and what needs to be done. we do not have information on the geographical distribution of this investment and the aggregation of smes with medium-sized enterprises, which may employ up to 3 000 people, does not allow us to assess the contribution of this support to social and territorial cohesion. what we see and what we have, particularly in the juncker plan, where the eib plays an important role, is that the objectives of cohesion have little weight in a european union increasingly at the service of big business and capital.
madam president, we agree with the general principles that guide the discussion. we cannot, however, fail to note that the real causes of the conflicts in which these criminal actions take place are completely ignored. a discussion that clarifies the direct and indirect roles and responsibilities of the european union, nato and the united states of america, in particular, in military aggression in the middle east and north africa, as well as the roles and responsibilities of western allies who have themselves been responsible for attacks on hospitals and schools. what about israel's criminal record of attacking un schools, arresting and killing children? what about the role of saudi arabia in the conflict in yemen or the innocent victims of american drones? this is a tremendous hypocrisy at a time when the european union is today setting an example throughout the world of the violation of the most basic human rights in its response to the humanitarian refugee crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome and thank the rapporteur, our colleague laura ferrara, for her work. transparency in the functioning of the institutions of the european union is fundamental to their credibility before the citizens whom we all represent here. this transparency implies easy access to documents and information as a means of strengthening participatory democracy. the opacity and the difficulties created in implementing political and administrative transparency are sworn enemies of democracy and the vitality of public institutions. it is imperative to facilitate access to ttip-related documents, as well as access to the documents, all the documents, of the trilogues. in my country, they say, "he who does not have to, does not fear". in other words, those who do what they have to do do do not need to hide or conceal their work.
mr president, the principle of transparency, which should govern public access to documents of the european institutions, is just one of those principles which are intended to embellish the european union's regulatory edifice. this is how we understand the systematic secrecy with which free trade agreements such as ttip, ceta and tisa are concluded, without any access to the content of the progress of the negotiating processes. so it is clear that access to documentation of scandals like luxleaks has been systematically limited to the public as well as to members of this parliament. it is clear that structures such as the ecb, which, it should be remembered, are not elected, are positioning themselves above any democratic scrutiny or control by refusing to make documents available and provide clarification on matters relating to banking supervision, even to members of this parliament, as happened this week in portugal. practice shows that transparency is no more than a very opaque glass in the most essential matters.
the debate highlights the concrete problems faced by citizens of the european union in the field of children's rights, which involve the jurisdiction of two or more member states. increased mobility within the union inevitably leads to an increase in cross-border litigation involving children. it is therefore urgent to step up judicial cooperation between member states in the field of training and the exchange of good practice between social services and courts in relation to cross-border adoption cases, child abduction cases and, in general, the regulation of parenting. given the particular sensitivity and social alarm of such cases, the union authorities should encourage member states to set up specialised courts with exclusive jurisdiction over such situations. this is an area where there can be no hesitation or misrepresentation, because what is at stake is the best interests of the child. the question is not to impose a single vision for dealing with family conflicts and the welfare of children, but to transform the territory of the union into an area of free movement of people and not just goods, services and capital.
mr president, domestic work is characterized by the absence of a contract of employment and late pay, by extended working hours without proper remuneration, by disregard for the right to holidays and breaks, by non-payment of holidays and vacations, by the absence of social security payments. it is characterized by the deepening of the precariousness of work, by labour deregulation and by the attack on collective bargaining. we cannot dissociate the plight of these workers from the increase in poverty, which in portugal already affects 30% of the population, or from the worsening inequalities that have been deepened by the macroeconomic policies and austerity measures imposed by the european union in response to the economic crisis. policies that have promoted the privatization and destruction of the public network of services and infrastructure for the care of children, the elderly and the sick, forcing many women to give up work in order to provide such care. this is a reality that results from the neo-liberal policies of impoverishment and exploitation that the european union sponsors and imposes on the member states.
mr president, latin america and the caribbean are living through difficult and important times. we note the progress of the negotiations between the european union and cuba, a step towards the end of an infamous blockade and which requires the council to ratify, as a matter of urgency, the repeal of the 1996 common position. we note the impasse in the negotiations on the peace process in colombia and the absence of positive contributions from the european union to the conclusion of this process, in particular the failure to remove the farc and the eln from their list of terrorist organisations. we note the continuing interference of imperialism in the democracies of the south american continent, as exemplified by the destabilization processes recently seen and under way in brazil and venezuela. finally, a message of solidarity with the people of ecuador, who are facing the worst tragedy in the last seventy years, following the earthquake which killed hundreds and injured thousands and which requires the rapid and substantial mobilisation of humanitarian and financial support from the european union.
he asks under the blue card procedure. thank you, mr president. mr. nuttall, in a perfect world i would never have signed the pnr, but we're not in a perfect world. there are these deals that have to be made. turkey has done a great job of holding back refugees, because europe can't let go. what do you want to do with the refugees? let them die in the atlantic, the pacific, the north sea, the mediterranean? what do you want to do? answer me! what are you doing? are you concerned about turkey's accession to the union? you should be concerned about the united kingdom leaving the union. that's what you should be worried about. tell me what you do with the refugees who come ashore on europe's shores, please.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, who benefits from an agreement which closes the doors of europe to two or three million war refugees and opens them to tens of millions of potential turkish immigrants? what guarantees can the commission and the council give that the six billion euros to be given to turkey will be used for the benefit of refugees and not for the improvement of the mechanisms of internal repression in turkey, in particular against the free press, against the kurds and in general against mr erdogan's opponents, but even for supporting the continuation of the war in syria through the financing of the jihadists? what is the european union trying to buy from turkey by paying it, through this kind of shameful outsourcing, the sum of six billion euros?
the main thrust of the eu's so-called migration policy in the face of this very serious humanitarian crisis is to deepen the fortress europe, with the criminalisation and expulsion of refugees and migrants, promoting a xenophobic and racist agenda, along with other discriminatory, intolerant, authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. the recent decisions of the european council confirm the pursuit of an inhumane and cruel policy in the face of humanitarian tragedies which are the direct result of the interventionist action of the eu, in conjunction with the usa and nato, on the african continent and in the middle east. in clear violation of international law, they have chosen to deepen the militarized response to the plight of those fleeing extreme poverty, hunger and military conflicts, locking them into the sinister circle of war that doubly condemns them. the agreement recently concluded with turkey is a good example of the eu's hypocrisy and the total absence of the basic values of respect for human and democratic rights when, beyond the commitment of 3 billion euros, it waves turkey's accession to the european union as a counterpart to serving as a buffer state holding back the flows of refugees on its territory and at its borders.
mr president, the three documents form part of the fourth railway package, the european union's response to the fact that the liberalisation of the sector advocated in the previous three packages has not achieved its core objectives: more and more liberalisation. the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement of the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy, is transversal to all documents, a clear political or ideological logic. the european railway agency is an instrument of the vision of federalism of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role, particularly in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of a strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals in a market logic, facilitating easy profit for the large financial sectors.
the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. the purpose of this protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide for the necessary linguistic adaptations. the protocol will not introduce any changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft decision is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel. since the protocol will not introduce any changes to the content of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and since its conclusion is necessary in view of the accession of the republic of croatia to the union, i shall vote in favour of this report.
‒ on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. it was therefore subject to automatic accession to agreements concluded or signed prior to its accession by the other member states and the union with one or more third countries. the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union and georgia is one such case. this was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region, which is part of the union's external aviation policy. since the purpose of this recommendation is to formalise the republic of croatia as a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and since no changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement are envisaged, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ the two reports that are reported aim at the inclusion of croatia in the aviation agreements concluded between the eu and georgia and israel as a consequence of its integration into the union. these agreements are based almost exclusively on two objectives: the opening up of markets and regulatory harmonization to promote competition in air transport. they are the statement of the principles, means and objectives of the single european sky. the inclusion or non-inclusion of croatia in these agreements does not change their content in the slightest.
in writing. the agreement with israel, a major aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important milestone in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the objective of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel and to provide for the necessary linguistic adaptations required. the protocol does not introduce any changes to the content of the euro-mediterranean agreement in the field of aviation.
‒ i voted against because i believe that the protocol in question represents an extension of the single european sky policy, with which i am, and have always been, in total disagreement. on the other hand, i cannot agree to the strengthening of the agreement with israel, when the opposite should be the case in view of the continuing violation of the association agreement with the eu and the total disregard for human rights, particularly in the occupied territories.
in writing. ‒ the republic of croatia joined the eu in july 2013 as the 28th member state and is therefore subject to automatic accession to agreements concluded or signed prior to its accession by the other member states and the union with one or more third countries. the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union and israel is one such case. the agreement is also an important achievement in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. as in the case of georgia, this recommendation is intended to formalise the republic of croatia as a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and israel and, since no amendments to the content of the common aviation area agreement are envisaged, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was negotiated on the basis of the council decision of 2 april 2008 authorising the opening of negotiations. the agreement was signed on 10 june 2013. the agreement with israel, a major aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important achievement in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. it is part of the union's external policy on aviation and the failed 'single sky' which we condemn and which was defined by the commission.
the act of accession of croatia establishes a simplified system for the accession of that state to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. the convention, which was established on the basis of the treaty on european union, was signed in brussels in 1997 and entered into force 90 days after the notification of the completion of the constitutional procedures. in the present case, it shall enter into force on the date on which this decision takes effect. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 3 (4) of the act of accession provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states listed in annex i to the act of accession, in particular the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states and the commission of the european communities, and to the convention of 18 december 1997 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data. the european parliament, after the council has acted on a recommendation from the commission, shall adopt the measures necessary to implement the provisions of this treaty. i presented the my vote is in favour.
‒ this report concerns the determination of the date for the entry into force of conventions and protocols with the accession of the republic of croatia concerning mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. since croatia's accession to the convention does not require any adjustments to the convention, we support the recommendation that the convention of 18 december 1997 should enter into force for croatia.
‒ similar to agreements in the field of aviation, the republic of croatia, as the 28th member state of the european union, is subject to automatic accession to agreements concluded or signed prior to its accession by the other member states and the union with one or more third countries. since the purpose of this report is to formalize the republic of croatia as a member of the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ croatia's accession to the said convention does not require any adjustments to the convention. therefore, this commission recommendation for a council decision only determines the date on which the convention of 18 december 1997 enters into force for croatia. since the act of accession already provides in annex i for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols listed therein, there is no need to consult interested parties and to carry out an impact assessment on such accession.
bolesław g. piecha, member of the european parliament elected by poland, has committed an alleged traffic offence before being elected to the european parliament and without that offence having a direct or obvious link with the performance of the duties of a member. the member has already agreed to accept the resulting fine and there are therefore no indications that the proceedings were instituted with the intention of harming the member's political activity. i voted in favour of lifting immunity.
‒ following the european parliament's motion for a decision that the infringement in question took place before mr piecha was elected as a member of the european parliament, when he was a member of the polish senate, and that the infringement therefore has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr boleslaw g. piecha. according to the information available, you may have committed a traffic violation. he was driving on a road at 60 miles an hour when he should be driving at 60. the member is prepared to pay the fine imposed on him and to fulfil his obligations as a citizen. since this is a normal procedure which does not affect the political activity of this member, nor is it due to his political activity in parliament, we voted in favour.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr boleslaw g. piecha. the request was made by the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland in connection with a criminal case brought by the inspector-general of road transport in poland, in which the member of the european parliament is accused of having infringed article 92a of the code of conduct for allegedly not complying with the speed limits applicable to urban agglomerations in poland. the analysis of the report shows that this is a judicial proceeding concerning conduct allegedly committed prior to your mandate as a member of the european parliament and therefore has no obvious or direct link with the exercise of the functions currently performed in the european parliament. in that regard, since there is no reason to doubt the legitimate intention underlying this legal action and given the fulfilment of the conditions set out in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i consider it appropriate to waive parliamentary immunity and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the polish road traffic inspectorate claims that the member of parliament did not respect the speed limit for urban agglomerations when driving a vehicle. the congressman admitted he was driving the vehicle at the time of the violation. the facts of which he is accused constitute an infringement of article 92 (a) of the polish code of criminal procedure, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the law on road traffic of 20 june 1997. the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious link with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and parliament has also found no substantiated evidence that the request is aimed at harming the member's political activity. we voted to waive immunity.
‒ there are numerous petitions to the ep concerning the practices of authorities responsible for the welfare of children and the protection of children's rights, the custody of minors, child abduction and childcare. the best interests of the child must be at the heart of all decisions on childcare at all levels, and that is why i support this resolution. i support the establishment by member states of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms within a national framework for the coordination of crossborder cases involving children, and the commission should coordinate the transfer of information between relevant authorities in the member states, and i support the creation of a platform providing support to eu citizens from other member states in family-related cases, alongside a european hotline for child abduction or abuse, as well as advice on care and adoption procedures.
in writing. in the eu, around 13% of marriages are considered international: couples of different nationalities, couples living separately in different countries or living together in a country other than their country of origin. the best interests of the child must be at the heart of all decisions on childcare issues at all levels. i therefore agree that children whose parents exercise the right of free movement have the right to maintain regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents, unless this is contrary to their interests.
‒ the european union has the power to adopt measures on family law with crossborder implications as laid down in article 81 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union tfeu. the best interests of the child should therefore be at the heart of all decisions on childcare matters. mobility within the eu has led to an increase in cross-border child protection issues involving loss of custody, and these have a significant impact on the lives of all those involved and on society. i am in favour of revising the brussels iia regulation in order to adapt it and to fill the existing gaps, which are in line with the situations highlighted by the large number of petitions received.
the resolution stresses that the eu should continue to support the implementation of the convention on the rights of the child, which is a fundamental instrument of the eu's external relations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people against the dangers of drugs and alcohol. some of the main ideas it highlights: - the need for member states to establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the management of crossborder cases involving children, in particular for the response to abduction cases, with alert systems. - the call for greater and better cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states. - the creation of a platform to support citizens of other member states in family-related cases and a single european hotline for cases of child abduction or abuse. - the need for specialised training and education for professionals dealing with crossborder cases involving minors. - the need to make every effort in adoption procedures to ensure that siblings are not separated. - support from the member states for parents, especially women, who have been victims of domestic violence. we voted yes.
‒ the best interests of the child must be at the heart of all decisions on childcare matters. the european parliament has received petitions concerning the practices of authorities responsible for the welfare of children and the protection of their rights, as well as concerning the custody of minors, child abduction and childcare. all child protection systems should be part of transnational frameworks that provide for mechanisms for resolving any cross-border conflicts that may arise. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the member states should establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms within a national framework for the coordination of crossborder cases involving minors. to that end, the european commission should coordinate the transfer of information between the national authorities of the member states. the proposal aims to create a transnational platform to provide support to eu citizens or families in cases involving minors, to create a european hotline for child abduction and abuse cases and to provide advice on care and adoption procedures. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the objectives proposed in it.
‒ the main objective of the resolution is to highlight some concerns related to the brussels ii regulation on the recognition and enforcement of family law in view of its forthcoming revision. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people against the dangers of drugs and alcohol. according to the report, member states should establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms (with socioeconomic statistics broken down by nationality) within a national framework for the coordination of cross-border cases involving children.
‒ this is a request for clarification as to what is intended to be a so-called 'european social pillar'. we are not opposed to this clarification. but we are under no illusions as to the intentions behind this whole european institutional movement to put the word 'social' in the neoliberal policies they are pursuing. this is a make-up, a whitewashing of the policies of the european union, which are intended to continue the attack on workers' rights and collective bargaining, labour deregulation and the crushing of wages.
‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the european parliament, the council and the commission may be assisted in certain cases, in particular by the economic and social committee, in its advisory capacity. this is one of those cases, since it is intended to create a european pillar of social rights. in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, this request for consultation does not require the approval of the members in office and for that reason i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 8 march 2016, the european commission launched a wide consultation and presented a first draft of what is to become the european pillar of social rights. this initiative is part of the commission's work towards a more deepened and fairer economic and monetary union (emu). as president juncker has said, the initiative is geared to the euro area, while allowing the other eu member states who wish to participate to join. to prove the extent of the fraud, it is enough to see in practice the effects of the euro, the budgetary treaty and economic governance. this eu is not reformable. only its destruction can give rise to a europe of the peoples, of cooperation, respect for national sovereignty and development.
the sector still struggles with barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment. there are too many different rules at national level, with opaque procedures and standards. in order to improve the performance and competitiveness of the sector and the quality and efficiency of rail transport services, the commission presented a fourth railway package to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, vehicles, signalling and other elements of the rail system and to simplify the approval procedures for vehicles intended to operate on the european rail network.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004. the support which parliament has given to a greater integration of the european railway area is extremely important. this means of transport makes a more sustainable contribution to employment and growth. the fourth railway package therefore aims to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, vehicles and signalling.
‒ the european parliament and council regulation on the european union railway agency can increase economies of scale for railway companies and manufacturers across the eu. the reduction of administrative costs and the speed of procedures, while maintaining safety levels, are the added value of the agreement. i am in favour of concerted action between the tea and the national authorities, in close cooperation, sharing knowledge and information, to ensure the proper application of the regulation.
‒ the proposal for a regulation on the european railway agency (era) aims to amend its current regulatory framework in order to define new competences in the field of interoperability and safety. the last three railway packages have brought about substantial changes with a view to making european rail transport more competitive and interoperable, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, the sector still faces numerous barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment, while at the same time there are too many rules at national level, sometimes with opaque procedures and standards. with a view to improving the performance and competitiveness of the sector and the quality and efficiency of rail transport services, the commission presented the fourth railway package. this proposal for a ten regulation is the technical pillar of the ten and aims to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure (e.g. track), wagons, signalling and other elements of the railway system and to simplify the approval procedures for wagons intended to operate on the european rail network. having regard to the council's position at first reading of december 2015, i voted in favour of the second reading of this recommendation.
‒ the documents discussed today are based on a clear political-ideological logic, the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement in the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy. the european railway agency is an instrument of the federalist vision of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role in particular in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of this strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals, in a market logic, putting users and member states to facilitate the easy profit of the large financial sectors.
in writing. the overall rail transport market share in the eu has stagnated at 6%, and according to the eurobarometer, 54% of users are not satisfied with rail services. the system provided for in the new directive will therefore bring europe closer to a single european railway area, reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the current high level of safety. i also hope that it will help to increase the economies of scale of rail transport companies and manufacturers across the eu, which will improve the competitiveness of companies in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (recast). the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the last decade, in a gradual process resulting from the adoption of three legislative 'railway packages'. the fourth railway package therefore aims to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, vehicles and signalling. that is to say, to improve the efficiency and quality of rail services by encouraging the creation of a single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ with the new directive, europe will be close to a single european railway area, with reduced administrative costs, faster procedures and with high safety levels maintained. i would like to stress the creation of the single desk which will serve as a single entry point for all applications for authorization. in this way, the information and communication system will make procedures simple and transparent. i believe it is essential that the efa and the national authorities work closely together, sharing information and knowledge, to ensure that these measures are applicable.
in writing. ‒ the documents discussed today are based on a clear political-ideological logic, the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement in the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy. the european railway agency is an instrument of the federalist vision of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role in particular in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of this strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals, in a market logic, by making users and member states facilitate the easy profit of the large financial sectors. we voted against it.
‒ the european union (eu) rail market has undergone profound transformations over the past decade. the aim of these changes was to open up national markets and make the railway sector more competitive and interoperable at eu level, while ensuring high safety levels. according to the eurobarometer, 54% of rail users are not satisfied with the services provided. the commission therefore presented a new railway package in january 2013 to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services with a view to removing the obstacles to the creation of a single european railway area - which unfortunately still remain on the market. the system envisaged in the new directive will bring europe closer to a single european railway area, reducing administrative costs and speeding up procedures. it is therefore expected to contribute to increasing economies of scale for rail transport companies and manufacturers across the eu. the european railway agency (era) and the national safety authorities shall conclude cooperation agreements. it is also expected that the one-stop shop and the cooperation agreements will ensure a clear distribution of tasks between the tfa and the national authorities. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the documents discussed today are based on a clear political-ideological logic, the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement in the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy. the european railway agency is an instrument of the federalist vision of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role in particular in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of this strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals, in a market logic, putting users and member states to facilitate the easy profit of the large financial sectors.
in writing. in order to create a single market for rail transport services, it is necessary to establish a common regulatory framework in the field of railway safety. member states have developed their safety rules and standards mainly at national level on the basis of national technical and operational concepts. one of the principles is to strengthen the safety culture and incident reporting of railway undertakings and to create an instrument for the exchange of information on safety risks for stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on railway safety (recast). the european railway agency (era) will play a key role in the issuing of safety certificates to railway undertakings. the era shall be competent to issue safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in several member states. any railway undertaking operating in a member state may choose to be certified by era or by a national safety authority.
‒ the single european railway area needs a common regulatory framework in the field of railway safety. directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community's railways was a major step forward in establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety. the directive established a framework for the harmonisation of safety standards, safety certification of railway undertakings, the tasks and functions of safety authorities and accident investigation in order to discourage member states from continuing to establish their own safety rules and standards based on national technical and operational concepts. however, the safety certification was left to the individual member states. although it has always been set as a long-term objective, i am in favour of the creation of a single safety certificate at eu level. i think it is essential that the era and the national authorities work closely together, sharing information and knowledge, to ensure that these measures are implemented.
‒ the documents discussed today are based on a clear political-ideological logic, the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement in the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy. the european railway agency is an instrument of the federalist vision of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role in particular in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of this strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals, in a market logic, putting users and member states to facilitate the easy profit of the large financial sectors.
‒ to create a single market for rail transport services, a common regulatory framework in the field of railway safety is necessary. member states have developed their safety rules and standards mainly at national level, based on their own technical and operational concepts. divergent principles, approaches and different cultures have also made it difficult to remove technical obstacles and to create (true) european transport services. the main objective of the commission proposal for the review of directive 2004/49/ec was to propose the transition to a single community safety certificate to replace the previously existing dual certificate system. railway undertakings and infrastructure managers should strengthen safety practices and reporting of incidents - which will have to be carried out in confidential conditions. the european railway agency (era) may establish an instrument for the exchange of information on safety risks for stakeholders, facilitating the cross-border exchange of this information in the event of a safety risk. for the reasons i have explained, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ the documents discussed today are based on a clear political-ideological logic, the neoliberal vision of the european union of deepening the single market and its enlargement in the railway sector, eliminating the alleged technical and administrative barriers that limit competitiveness, overriding any national strategy. the european railway agency is an instrument of the federalist vision of this european union, which replaces the national authorities in the railway networks, limiting their role in particular in safety matters, in the name of the so-called competitiveness. a railway package which promotes the destruction of this strategic sector in each member state, privatisations and redundancies, and which advocates direct financing of large multinationals, in a market logic, by making users and member states facilitate the easy profit of the large financial sectors.
in writing. the manipulation of libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. i agree with the need to strengthen governance systems and standards; increase transparency through greater availability to users of all benchmarks; and maintain the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks through the application of governance requirements in a proportionate manner.
‒ given the importance of benchmarks in the framework of financial instruments and contracts for the smooth functioning and stability of financial markets, as well as of commodities and the economy in general, i have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in the framework of financial instruments and contracts.
‒ the manipulation of libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. the current legal framework requires a more comprehensive approach, so that it does not simply recognise the illegality of such acts. it should be noted that the stability and efficiency of markets and the general economy also require that legislative action avoid restricting, as far as possible, the number and variety of benchmarks offered and used in the union. i advocate strengthening governance systems and standards, in particular for widely used and systemically important benchmarks, reducing their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse, enhancing transparency by making all benchmarks more widely available to users to enable informed decisions, and maintaining the supply of and access to a wide range of benchmarks through the application of proportionate governance requirements.
in writing. ‒ a benchmark is an index that is used as a reference price in financial instruments or contracts. the most well-known examples are benchmark interest rates such as euribor and libor, which are used in the calculation of interest rates on loans and deposits with an associated remuneration. the manipulation of these benchmark rates, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. in response to these revelations, amendments to eu market abuse legislation have been proposed to clarify that such manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to incorporate this matter into the framework of criminal law. the fact that the production of benchmarks continues to be in the hands of private individuals (and not in the hands of public authorities) means that the problems of manipulation and conflicts of interest persist. the increasing liberalization of the economy and society increases their vulnerability to manipulation. we do not follow the illusion that it is possible to draw up rules to discipline the agents. the problem lies in the intrinsic nature of capitalism and only the subordination of economic power to political power through public control of key sectors can solve the problem.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts introduces a common framework to ensure the accuracy, transparency and comparability of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts in the union. the political agreement on this new framework was reached in the trilogue in november 2015 and technical work has since been carried out to finalise the corresponding texts. with this agreement, the eu is setting a standard which we hope will become a global benchmark. the new regulation will improve the management of eu-produced and eu-used benchmarks in financial instruments such as bonds, shares, futures and swaps. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the objectives proposed by this legislative resolution of the european parliament.
‒ the recent scandals of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor and euribor, as well as allegations of manipulation of energy, oil and foreign exchange benchmarks, demonstrate that these can be subject to conflicts of interest. the increasing liberalization of the economy and society increases their vulnerability to manipulation. failures in the accuracy and integrity of, or doubts about, the indices used as benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause harm to consumers and investors, and distort the real economy. we do not follow the illusion that it is possible to draw up rules to discipline the agents. the problem lies in the intrinsic nature of capitalism and only the subordination of economic power to political power through public control of key sectors can solve the problem.
‒ the discharge, although a largely administrative procedure, allows for the review of situations and procedures which are not in line with eu principles. this report draws attention to the fact that the commission's budget should not be used to finance directly or indirectly bullfighting or any other form of animal torture. i voted yes.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
‒ the court of auditors delivered an opinion on the accounts concluding that the revenue collection was free from errors. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned was lower than the average price of the product concerned during the investigation period. the report also argues that the european parliament should not only check that funds have been spent in a legal and regular manner, but also that the policy objectives have been achieved and the principles of sound financial management have been respected. the report also stresses the need for the commission to deliver on its commitments, notably: reconciling financial and political programmes; ensuring the closest correlation between the eu's 2020 objectives, partnership agreements and operational programmes; and publishing the contribution of dgs to the country-specific recommendations adopted under the european semester in their annual activity reports. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the content of this resolution, which is in line with the court of auditors' report and makes a number of recommendations (some of which i have already outlined in the previous paragraphs).
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this discharge in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. the court of auditors has drawn up several special reports for the committee, which, in general, with a few exceptions, can be assessed by the known audits, we can say that the institutions concerned are using the funds made available correctly and meeting the proposed objectives. i voted in favour.
‒ from the information contained in this report, it deserves my vote in favour, given the importance of the court of auditors' special reports in providing information on the implementation of the funds. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ budget discharge is above all an administrative procedure which allows for the review of situations and procedures which are not in line with eu principles. the court of auditors' special reports provide information on matters of major concern, such as the implementation of the funds, and are therefore useful to the european parliament as the institution exercising the function of discharge authority. in general, i agree with the views expressed in the 24 special reports of the court of auditors on energy, the union's rural development policies, external relations and other areas, and i welcome the fact that more than half of the recommendations made by the court of auditors have been fully implemented by the commission. however, it should be noted that in other cases there is a lack of action by the commission and the member states in implementing recommendations, leading to different conclusions, and it is therefore appropriate that both institutions should be able to articulate their work, in particular through a clearer definition of the recommendations by the court of auditors and a stronger implementation and accountability of the commission and the member states.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this discharge in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th european development funds is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the eighth, ninth, 10th and 11th european development funds for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this discharge in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge to the general budget of the eu is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the president discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ recalls that the court of auditors carries out a specific assessment of administrative and other expenditure as a single policy group for all union institutions, including the european parliament, and that overall audit evidence indicates that administrative expenditure is not affected by a significant level of error; notes that the control of operations indicates that the estimated level of error in mff heading 5 on administration is 0,5% (compared to 1% in 2013). this does not erase the pernicious role of the ep as an institution designed to give a pseudo-democratic tone to the whole process of european integration, characterized by the most varied infringements of the sovereign will of the peoples who are not taken into account.
‒ recalls that the court of auditors carries out a specific assessment of administrative and other expenditure as a single policy group for all union institutions, including the european parliament, and that overall audit evidence indicates that administrative expenditure is not affected by a significant level of error; notes that the control of operations indicates that the estimated level of error in mff heading 5 on administration is 0,5% (compared to 1% in 2013). this does not erase the pernicious role of the ep as an institution designed to give a pseudo-democratic tone to the whole process of european integration, characterized by the various encroachments on the sovereign will of the peoples that are not taken into account.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i would vote in favour of postponing the decision to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ recalls that the court of auditors carries out a specific assessment of administrative and other expenditure as a single policy group for all union institutions and that overall the audit evidence indicates that administrative expenditure is not affected by a significant level of error; notes that the audit of operations indicates that the estimated level of error in mff heading 5 on administration is 0,5% (compared to 1% in 2013). this does not erase the council's pernicious role as a profoundly anti-democratic institution in the whole process of european integration, characterized by the most varied violations of the sovereign will of the peoples which is not taken into account.
‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the court of justice of the european union have been found to be correct and that the rate of implementation of its budget is about 99%. i am also pleased to see that the number of cases submitted and the number of cases closed were virtually the same. however, i must reiterate the rapporteur's call for the judges to make public their declaration of financial interests and for the activity report to be made available to the public. the commission's proposal is to reduce the number of vehicles used by the european parliament. that is why i support this report.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the court of justice's report.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the report provides a reading of the productivity of the work of different sections of the court. it argues that internal reforms should be sought to improve work through internal resources. it advocates greater control and scrutiny of the external activities of judges. it argues that these external activities should be publicly accessible, as should declarations of financial interests. they hope that a reform of work will bring simplification to the administrative architecture. it argues that new technologies should be used to reduce unnecessary costs. he values the translation element and his work. he argues that there should be improvements in the organisation of the agenda. it refers to the gender inequalities that still exist in some positions. it criticises the very large expenditure on car drivers and travel. welcomes environmental measures in the court's operating policy.
‒ the court of auditors, as the main body responsible for the supervision of all the european institutions, must also be subject to supervision. the court's work is very important in ensuring that european funds are used more effectively. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the vote in favour of the report by the economic and social committee is in that sense.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and to propose a new budget for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound budgetary management. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the budget reduction between 2013 and 2014 of 1,19% is to be noted, which may be a condition for the continuation of the activities of this committee. on the other hand, the rate of implementation has increased, which is positive, as it reflects management efficiency. efficiency in the use of services is also important, although there is a trend towards outsourcing of these services (e.g. translation). the economic and social committee is understood to be providing a useful service in the light of the information contained in the report.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the report by the committee of the regions.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. in this report, parliament gives the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2014, which means that the committee has complied with the european rules on budget implementation and that the committee's budget has been closed. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the budget increase between 2013 and 2014 and the increase in the implementation rate are noted. the report notes that the number of missions is very high (italy and greece have a very high number), and that the cost of the number of missions is high; on the other hand, poor implementation with outsourcing costs for interpretation services is seen as a concern. the committee of the regions is understood to provide a useful service and is important for the determination and evaluation of cohesion policies in the context of the union, in the light of the information in the report (emphasising that some of the criticisms assume a tendency to empty the participation of the regions and the liberalisation of services).
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the european external action service is a european union support service for diplomatic relations and for the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy. the action is guided by what are understood to be the 'values' of the european union, supposedly with respect to the principles of the united nations and international law. we do not recognise the european union's foreign policy, since relations with third countries must be promoted within the framework of cooperation relations between countries, on a bilateral basis. on the other hand, practice shows the oppressive, interfering, militaristic and criminal character of this foreign policy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this external action service is the result of negotiations between the council and the majority of parliament on one of the central points of the lisbon treaty and a key element in the federalism of the european union, which has now become a legal personality, as they advocated in the european constitution. it is noted that this service will involve more than five thousand people in eu embassies in various countries around the world. to make matters worse, we note that no proposals from our group have been put forward, in particular those which advocated that the eu's military structures should not be part of the european external action service. they shouldn't even have any institutional ties. the same was true of the eu's secret intelligence structures.
‒ i support the czarnecki report which approves the way the european union budget was implemented in 2014 as regards the european ombudsman. the court of auditors did not find any shortcomings in the audited topics related to human resources and contract award. the ombudsman's own-initiative inquiries, which contribute to the institution's more efficient work, and the fact that the ratio between completed inquiries and ongoing inquiries has reached an all-time high, are to be commended. however, an excessive value was noted with the direct recruitment of staff which was not in line with eu staff selection criteria.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the european ombudsman's report.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the european ombudsman is a body of the european union which monitors the way in which the european union administration carries out its tasks. it investigates complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union, in the exercise of its judicial functions. the ombudsman may consider that there is maladministration if an institution fails to respect fundamental rights, legal rules and principles, or the principles of good administration. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this body. the report is accompanied by a resolution which deals with technical and financial questions relating to the rate of implementation of the budget, payment appropriations, and so on. it also comments on the high number of cases to be resolved, including those of polish and spanish nationals, concerns about the very low level of satisfaction among officials, the need to reduce travel costs to strasbourg, the lack of discretion in recruiting staff and the progress to be made on the balance between nationalities and gender. it calls for a report on translation issues.
‒ the european ombudsman is a body of the european union which monitors the way in which the european union administration carries out its tasks. it investigates complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union, in the exercise of its judicial functions. the ombudsman may consider that there is maladministration if an institution fails to respect fundamental rights, legal rules and principles, or the principles of good administration. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this body. the report is accompanied by a resolution which deals with technical and financial questions relating to the rate of implementation of the budget, payment appropriations, and so on. it also comments on the high number of cases to be resolved, including those of polish and spanish nationals, concerns about the very low level of satisfaction among officials, the need to reduce travel costs to strasbourg, the lack of discretion in recruiting staff and the progress to be made on the balance between nationalities and gender. it calls for a report on translation issues.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european data protection supervisor have been found to be correct and that the rate of implementation of its budget is about 92%, an improvement on the previous year. i would, however, like to stress, as the rapporteur does, the need for greater transparency in recruitment policy and the importance of detailed and specific information on the expenditure of your staff on missions. i also regret to reiterate the need to develop an internal policy on whistleblowing. i therefore support this report.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the data protection authority is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am voting in favour of giving the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the report notes that in 2014, the authority had a total budget of eur 8 012 953 (eur 7 661 409 in 2013) and that the implementation rate of these appropriations was 92% (84,7% in 2013), which is an improvement in the results. notes that there is very little information on the procedures and criteria for selecting contractors. the authority therefore notes that only one contract award decision was published on the authority's website in 2014. the authority therefore urges that a list of all the awarded contracts to which it is party, even if they were launched by other institutions, as well as the respective selection procedures and criteria, be included on its website and in its annual activity report for 2015. it also notes with concern the cuts in the budget lines for translation, publications and the authority's activities.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, eu agencies should do their utmost to reduce administrative costs, including by sharing them. i voted in favour.
‒ the report deserves my vote in favour, given the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies, their impact on the lives of citizens and the independent nature of their technical and scientific assessments. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ although i do not agree with the activities carried out by acer, i chose to abstain on the grounds that the wages and other rights of the agency's workers cannot be called into question.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would suggest that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in future.
‒ notes from the report that the budget implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 95%, which coincides with the target set by the agency and represents a decrease of 2,53% compared to 2013; notes that the implementation rate of payment appropriations was 69,84%, which represents an increase of 14,84% compared to 2013, and considers that the implementation rate of payment appropriations is below the agency's 75% target, mainly due to the renewal or negotiation of the agency's annual contracts at the end of the year, as well as the multiannual nature of the remit project; the report also states that 'in accordance with the headquarters agreement between the agency and the host member state, a european school should be set up in the host member state'. the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package, which is a comprehensive strategy, defined at the level of the european union, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector, that is, to better serve the interests of the economic groups in the sector.
‒ notes from the report that the budget implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 95%, which coincides with the target set by the agency and represents a decrease of 2,53% compared to 2013; notes that the implementation rate of payment appropriations was 69,84%, which represents an increase of 14,84% compared to 2013, and considers that the implementation rate of payment appropriations is below the agency's 75% target, mainly due to the renewal or negotiation of the agency's annual contracts at the end of the year, as well as the multiannual nature of the remit project; the report also states that 'in accordance with the headquarters agreement between the agency and the host member state, a european school should be set up in the host member state'. the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package, which is a comprehensive strategy, defined at the level of the european union, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector, that is, to better serve the interests of the economic groups in the sector.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the report by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of granting the director of the translation centre of the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i vote in favour of the report by the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop).
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of approving the closure of the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european police college have been found to be correct and that the rate of implementation of its budget is about 95%, although i am concerned about the high cancellation of about 15% of the total appropriations authorised carried over. it should be noted, however, that the academy has taken corrective measures for three problems identified by the court of auditors in previous years, as well as the financial efficiency with which the transfer from the united kingdom to hungary was conducted. i therefore support this report.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i vote in favour of the report by the european police college (cepol).
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the academy for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the european police college (cepol) is an agency of the european union designed to provide police officers with training and learning opportunities on issues essential to the security of the eu and its citizens. training covers topics ranging from leadership issues to enforcement techniques and eu cooperation to economic crime. its activities aim to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and good practice and to contribute to the development of a common european culture in the field of law enforcement. the european police academy aims to be recognised by law enforcement and education agencies and authorities as a key source of learning and development in the field of education and training with a view to strengthening police cooperation and protection in europe. cepol also collaborates with other related union agencies, including europol, frontex and eurojust, and other international organisations, such as interpol, to ensure a strong collective response against the main threats to our security. on the basis of the basic questions which govern the existence of this agency, we voted against.
‒ the european police college (cepol) is an agency of the european union designed to provide police officers with training and learning opportunities on issues essential to the security of the eu and its citizens. training covers topics ranging from leadership issues to enforcement techniques and eu cooperation to economic crime. its activities aim to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and good practice and to contribute to the development of a common european culture in the field of law enforcement. cepol's headquarters are located in budapest (hungary) since 1 october 2014. the budget of the academy is mainly drawn from the budget of the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers in the investigation period. the court of auditors has recognised the academy's accounts as viable. notes the publication of the declarations of interests and cvs of the director and deputy directors - this aspect was taken into account in the opinion of the libe committee, issues related to transparency and conflicts of interest; the committee also welcomes the fact that the academy's headquarters have been moved to budapest and suggests that measures be taken to make the academy profitable in respect of the working environment.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european aviation safety agency (easa) is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i believe that the realisation of se+2 is essential for greater efficiency in european airspace. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. ‒ easa is responsible for the certification of aircraft and pilots at union level. it is a service which should be provided by the aviation authorities of the member states, in respect of the strategic sovereignty of the people, and which is fully integrated into the single european sky strategy. in this report, parliament gives easa discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, which means that the agency has complied with the european regulations on budget implementation and closes its budget. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual implementation of the budget. the report does not raise any issues related to easa and the financial year in question. in view of the above, it is understood that the increase in the budget and the enhancement of the agency take away capacities from the national authorities and are therefore considered to be contrary to the national interests, of the agents and of the users.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european asylum support office have been cleared, although i am very concerned about the transfer of over one million euro in budget commitments which are not covered by any legal commitment. i urge the rapporteur to put this matter to rest. i also note with concern the numerous shortcomings noted by the rapporteur, particularly as regards recruitment policies and the high percentage of commitments carried over in some budget lines. i also agree with the rapporteur when he stresses that the importance of better budgetary management is all the greater at a time when the role of the office - in the face of the so-called refugee crisis - is playing an increasing number of (and will probably see increased) tasks.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european asylum support office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. i believe in the role that the european bureau has played in creating measures for the humanitarian crisis that we are experiencing. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. notes, however, that 21,2% (eur 146 417) of the non-differentiated committed appropriations carried over from 2013 were cancelled in 2014 and notes that the cancellations mainly concern temporary employment services, staff training courses and administrative and translation support costs; it recognises the difficulties in managing the current refugee crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from harmful organisms.
in writing. the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. notes, however, that 21,2% (eur 146 417) of the non-differentiated committed appropriations carried over from 2013 were cancelled in 2014 and notes that the cancellations mainly concern temporary employment services, staff training courses and administrative and translation support costs; it recognises the difficulties in managing the current refugee crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from harmful organisms.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european banking authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the eba aims to ensure consistent and effective prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banking sector, but also to the capital needs of the banking sector. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ the three authorities are part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the eba aims to ensure consistent and effective prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banking sector, but also to the capital needs of the banking sector in general. eiopa aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. esma aims to safeguard the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets and by enhancing investor protection. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we have opposed the establishment of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european chemicals agency (echa) is appropriate.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this spirit that i am voting in favour of the report by the community fisheries control agency (cfp).
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the implementation of control and inspection measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in their respective exclusive economic zones should be a responsibility of the member states, which should be provided with adequate and sufficient means for this purpose, to which the eu should contribute. we do not deny the need for cooperation, coordination and coordination between the various member states in the control and combating of illegal fishing, but we were sceptical about the added value of the creation of this agency, because we believe that some of its powers clash with the competences of the member states. this is a centralisation which, moreover, does not contribute to the necessary effectiveness of control activities. we also expressed our disagreement with the representativeness of the agency's management board, its operating model and the excessive weight the european commission assumes in it, particularly in the voting system. the aecp was allocated a budget of eur 9 217 150 in 2014, which could have been used to support member states in financing control activities.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this spirit that i give my vote in favour of the report by the european institute for gender equality (eige).
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european institute for gender equality a discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. in this context, equality between women and men is an urgent objective, but unfortunately it is still far from women's daily lives. the way forward must be to combat all inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight takes place. we therefore call for the conditions under which the european institute for gender equality carries out its work to be strengthened, particularly in terms of human and financial resources, so that it can better meet the demands placed on it.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. in this context, equality between women and men is an urgent objective, but unfortunately it is still far from women's daily lives. the way forward must be to combat all inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight takes place. we therefore call for the conditions under which the european institute for gender equality carries out its work to be strengthened, particularly in terms of human and financial resources, so that it can better meet the demands placed on it.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ eiopa aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ the three authorities are part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the eba aims to ensure consistent and effective prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banking sector, but also to the capital needs of the banking sector. eiopa aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. esma aims to safeguard the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets and by enhancing investor protection. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ the european medicines agency plays a key role in protecting and promoting public and animal health by carrying out the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. in its report, the court of auditors states that the transactions related to the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the court of auditors also notes the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014, which contributed to the high budget implementation rate of 94,32%, despite representing a decrease of 2,44% compared to the previous year. in this respect, i support the vaughan report which is to give the european parliament discharge for the budget relating to the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i would vote in favour of granting the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the observatory are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ i support the vaughan report which is to give the european parliament discharge in respect of the budget for the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. it should be noted that budgetary surveillance efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94.78%, but the payment appropriations implementation rate of 93.77%, which was below the commission's 95% target, resulted in a sanction being imposed by the commission. highlight the agency's contribution to maritime safety, the prevention of pollution from ships and assistance to member states.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the role of emsa, in collaboration with member states, is crucial for the preservation of our seas and the safety of our seafarers. i also believe that wherever their skills are strengthened, so too should their human and financial resources. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. the report shall seek approval and verify that the agency's final accounts are in accordance with the annual report of the court of auditors. the budget is down by 9,37% compared to 2013. the court of auditors has ruled on the regularity of the accounts and has not made any comments, which is to be welcomed. the agency's process of physical inventorying of administrative equipment is assessed. recommends accelerating the improvement of accounting procedures and information on internally generated intangible assets. the rate of budget implementation was 94.78% and the rate of payment appropriations was 93.77%. it is noted that no major problems were identified in the appropriations carried over in 2014. the implementation rate of commitments in 2014 was criticised for being below the 95% target set by the commission, which led to a penalty being applied to the draft budget for 2016; requests the agency to publicise the reasons why the reduction does not reach this value and urges it to improve budget implementation.
‒ i support the vaughan report on the discharge to be given to the european parliament in respect of the budget for the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014. to highlight the agency's budget implementation performance of 100%. to commend the agency's efforts through internal measures aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness and environmental quality of its facilities.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. we need a real railway area without barriers and obstacles and the railway agency has a key role to play in making this happen. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. afe is an instrument which replaces the national authorities in the system of definitive deepening of the development of the european rail traffic management system. the agency is therefore based on the perspective of liberalisation and the elimination of barriers to competition with the aim of creating a single railway market. the report also provides for the discharge of the afe for the implementation of its 2014 budget, which means that the agency has complied with the european regulations on budget implementation and that its budget has been closed. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the budget is reduced by 0,55 percentage points between 2013 and 2014, and the execution rate is reduced by 0,53 percentage points. the budget is requested to be increased in future, in line with the increase in the agency's powers. the report also highlights the declarations of conflicts of interest by members of its board of directors and management staff, which is linked to the call for a more active and holistic approach to the fight against corruption.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ esma aims to safeguard the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets and by enhancing investor protection. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ the three authorities are part of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the eba aims to ensure consistent and effective prudential regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the banking sector, but also to the capital needs of the banking sector. eiopa aims to support the stability of the financial system and the transparency of financial markets and products. it also seeks to protect policyholders and members and beneficiaries of pension schemes. esma aims to safeguard the stability of the eu financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets and by enhancing investor protection. by creating the illusion that the problems that caused the financial crisis of 2007/2008 are solved, the esfs has not changed the underlying issue of financial speculation, as it has not put a cap on derivatives markets and tax havens and has not instituted the separation of commercial and investment banking. history will show that the creation of these european authorities was not worth it. for these reasons, we went against the institution of this system and its authorities. we voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of this authority.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that eu-lisa's accounts have been found to be correct and its budget implementation rate is around 99%, a result of budgetary surveillance efforts. i do note, however, the overestimation of staff expenditure. it is also noted that the agency has increased its transparency mechanisms compared to the previous year - including making information about its director available to the public - and has adopted new internal control procedures, as recommended by best practice. it is with particular pleasure that i see that the headquarters agreements in both tallinn and strasbourg have been signed. i therefore support this report.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament gives eu-osha discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014, which means that it has recognised that eu-osha has complied with the european regulations on budget implementation and that its budget has been closed. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the budget decrease between 2013 and 2014 of 1,17% is noted. the report notes that the agency is instrumental in implementing the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 and has given positive indications of its results in its first year of operation. eu-osha is understood to provide a useful and relevant service in promoting the improvement of the health and safety conditions to which workers are subject.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament gives eu-osha discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014, which means that it has recognised that eu-osha has complied with the european regulations on budget implementation and that its budget has been closed. the court of auditors' report finds that there are no significant errors. the budget decrease between 2013 and 2014 of 1,17% is noted. the report notes that the agency is instrumental in implementing the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 and has given positive indications of its results in its first year of operation. eu-osha is understood to provide a useful and relevant service in promoting the improvement of the health and safety conditions to which workers are subject.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. ‒ in this report, parliament gives eurofound discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014, which means that it has recognised that the agency has complied with the european regulations on the implementation of the budget and that its budget has been closed. the court of auditors' report finds that there are reasonable assurances that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the need to assess situations of possible conflict of interest, which could lead to ethically unsound situations and damage the foundation's reputation, is also stressed. all other data are not open to discussion. eurofound is understood to provide a useful service by providing information relevant to the characterisation of the union and to subsequent policy practice.
‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european judicial cooperation unit have been cleared with a budget implementation rate of close to 100%. however, i am concerned about the shortfall of almost two million euro in pay due to wage adjustments and the increase in the correction coefficient, both of which were not properly applied and which forced the temporary suspension of other payments. i welcome the efforts made in the area of transparency, but i would stress, with the rapporteur, the need for greater information and transparency in tendering procedures. the prevention of conflicts of interest is therefore of particular importance. i therefore support this report.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities responsible for investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder and organised crime and to bring criminals to justice swiftly and effectively. the objective that eurojust aims to achieve is to play a leading role and to be the centre of expertise at judicial level with a view to effective action against transnational organised crime in the european union. eurojust's work is based on a close relationship with its partners, which can be national authorities as well as european union bodies such as the european judicial network, europol, olaf (for crimes affecting the financial interests of the european union), frontex, sitcen, cepol and the european judicial training network, in addition to other bodies with competence under the provisions of the treaties. we voted against it.
‒ eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities responsible for investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder and organised crime and to bring criminals to justice swiftly and effectively. the objective that eurojust aims to achieve is to play a leading role and to be the centre of expertise at judicial level with a view to effective action against transnational organised crime in the european union. is concerned that the salary adjustments were not included in the initial budget for the financial year 2014. it criticises the wage deficit, which reached eur 1 800 000, and which required a corrective procedure of eur 1 200 000 to deal with the situation. calls on eurojust to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to address this issue and to provide better guidance to its beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european police office have been cleared, with a budget implementation rate of close to 100%. it should be stressed that the agency has finally implemented a more transparent system in the award of contracts and recruitment, and has increased the transparency of its activity by making more information available to the public. however, the prevention of conflicts of interest and corruption remains imperative given the nature of the agency. i therefore support this report.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the director of the european police office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ europol is an eu agency whose main objective is law enforcement in order to help achieve a safer europe for the benefit of european citizens. it therefore helps member states in the fight against terrorism and international crime. it identifies as the main threats justifying its actions large-scale crime, terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, fraud, counterfeiting of money, cybercrime and trafficking in human beings. its funding has been stepped up as part of the strengthening of security measures and controls on citizens' fundamental freedoms and rights. we voted against it.
‒ the report calls for an improvement in the fight against corruption. it calls for internal control of the functioning of the agency. the last audit identified no major problems, only three recommendations considered important. it called for further work to ensure that budgetary executions are efficient and in line with european standards. we are against europol for a number of reasons, including the possibility that 'the processing of special categories of data relating to ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union membership, sexual orientation or health' may not be excluded, the failure to adopt safeguards for the protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation at eu level and in relation to third countries, in particular the us (for example, data on air passengers), the failure to guarantee access by a citizen to data concerning him or her or even to find out whether his or her personal data are being processed by europol, and the failure to clarify the control by national parliaments.
‒ i am pleased to see that the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights have been cleared with a budget implementation rate of 100%, as in the previous year. i am pleased to see that the agency has taken corrective measures to address the problems identified in previous discharges, that it has focused on the transparency of its work and on the prevention of conflicts of interest. i am, however, concerned about the problems encountered in determining the salaries of certain officials, as the rapporteur points out. i therefore support this report.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict controls. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted yes.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of giving the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the fundamental rights agency (fra) is a european union agency that provides the eu institutions and member states with 'independent' and reasoned assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights. the fra is an 'independent body' of the eu, funded by the union budget. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this agency. the report is accompanied by a resolution addressing technical/budgetary aspects. what is important here is the character of this agency, which is not independent in any way, whose view on fundamental rights is the view of the european union, the same institution that constantly violates the fundamental rights of citizens in various countries in the world. it is an instrument which is used to promote eu intervention in third countries. the eu has a role to play in the fight against terrorism, and the eu is committed to the principle of non-refoulement. that is why, in line with our action in favour of the great causes of freedom, the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, social progress, peace and solidarity among all peoples, we voted against.
‒ the fundamental rights agency (fra) is a european union agency that provides the eu institutions and member states with 'independent' and reasoned assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights. the fra is an 'independent body' of the eu, funded by the union budget. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this agency. the report is accompanied by a resolution addressing technical/budgetary aspects. what is important here is the character of this agency, which is not independent in any way, whose view on fundamental rights is the view of the european union, the same institution that constantly violates the fundamental rights of citizens in various countries in the world. it is an instrument which is used to promote eu intervention in third countries. the eu has a role to play in the fight against terrorism, and the eu is committed to the principle of non-refoulement. that is why, in line with our action in favour of the great causes of freedom, the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, social progress, peace and solidarity among all peoples, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to see that frontex's accounts have been taken as correct, with a budget implementation rate of over 98%. i also note the high percentage of appropriations committed which have been carried over; however, i agree with the rapporteur that the unpredictability of the agency's activities is a determining factor in this outcome. i also stress the importance of the agency making its management as efficient as possible, in particular by rethinking its model of grants to national authorities. the growing importance of the agency makes efficient management even more imperative, but the difficulties and limitations pointed out by the rapporteur should also be taken into account in the new legal basis. that is why i support this report.
‒ although i do not agree with the activities carried out by frontex, especially in the light of the current migration and refugee crisis, i have opted to abstain, on the understanding that the wages and other rights of the agency's workers cannot be called into question.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i shall vote in favour of granting the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ frontex promotes, coordinates and develops the management of the european union's borders in accordance with community legislation. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this agency. the report is accompanied by a resolution which deals with the rate of implementation of the budget, payment appropriations and internal audits, among other technical aspects. notes furthermore that according to the court of auditors' report, it is necessary to adjust the calculation of the contributions of the third countries that are parties to the 'schengen agreement' (switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and norway) and to take measures to align the agency's operating procedure with the proposal for a coast and border guard; we reaffirm that frontex's policy serves to aggravate immigration policy by using more repressive means. it is a fact that the european union's policy in this area, especially in dealing with the refugee crisis, has been shameful, placing various obstacles to the entry of refugees into europe, concealing the fact that, in general, these human beings are either fleeing the wars that the european union itself is fuelling, or are simply seeking better living conditions. because we disagree with the work of this agency, we voted against it.
‒ frontex promotes, coordinates and develops the management of the european union's borders in accordance with community legislation. this report aims to approve the discharge for the financial year 2014 for this agency. the report is accompanied by a resolution which deals with the rate of implementation of the budget, payment appropriations and internal audits, among other technical aspects. notes furthermore that according to the court of auditors' report, it is necessary to adjust the calculation of the contributions of the third countries that are parties to the 'schengen agreement' (switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and norway) and to take measures to align the agency's operating procedure with the proposal for a coast and border guard; we reaffirm that frontex's policy serves to aggravate immigration policy by using more repressive means. it is a fact that the european union's policy in this area, especially in dealing with the refugee crisis, has been shameful, placing various obstacles to the entry of refugees into europe, concealing the fact that, in general, these human beings are either fleeing the wars that the european union itself is fuelling, or are simply seeking better living conditions. because we disagree with the work of this agency, we voted against it.
‒ i support the vaughan report which is to give discharge to the european parliament for the budget relating to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. it is acknowledged that overall the budget implementation of the agency was satisfactory, with a budget implementation rate of 99,84%, and the agency's effort to reduce the levels of carry-overs by mobilising budgetary funds wherever possible at the beginning of the year and thus allowing for advance payments is recognised. it should be noted that the agency is developing a new budget management tool to support the implementation, monitoring and reporting of the total delegated budget with the aim of improving the management of commitment and payment appropriations, and that the internal control standards have been met satisfactorily.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i consider it extremely important that the union continues to invest in its own gps, with all the advantages it will bring to the union's economy. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of postponing the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and postponing the decision to grant the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, and postponing the decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ although i disagree with and question so many times the activities of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking, i chose to abstain on the understanding that wages and other workers' rights cannot be called into question.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ although i do not agree with the activities carried out by the joint undertaking for iter and its financing, i have opted to abstain, because i believe that wages and other workers' rights cannot be called into question.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i would vote in favour of postponing the decision to grant the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. in this sense, and despite our reservations about the centralizing and federalist character of many of these bodies, we do not oppose this exemption in principle.
‒ all european institutions that depend on the budget of the european union must be closely monitored. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. i voted in favour.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of postponing the decision to grant the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the joint undertaking (sesar) was conceived in 2017 as a public-private partnership, with the european union and eurocontrol as founding members. its budget for the development phase of the sesar project between 2008 and 2016 is eur 2 100 000 000, to be financed in equal parts by the union, eurocontrol and the participating public and private partners. the report states that 'the institutions and bodies are required to draw up an annual report on budgetary and financial management', but found that the information submitted by the joint undertaking in its report is not harmonised and is often not complete.
in writing. the eib's main role as the bank of the european union is to provide financial support for projects of interest to the union which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. in 2014, it financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, signed contracts for 413 projects in the european union worth eur 69 billion and 92 new projects outside the european union worth eur 7.98 billion. the number of contracts signed by the eib in 2014 is the highest since 2009. i agree with the increase in the capital of the eib by eur 10 billion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the annual report on the european investment bank. the eib's objective is to support financially projects in the interest of the union that contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. the report focuses on the following key areas: prioritising investment to accelerate recovery and improve productivity; promoting youth employment, innovation and smes; enhancing environmental sustainability and climate action; promoting economic and social cohesion and convergence; managing the european fund for strategic investments (efsi); examining the project finance obligation initiative; updating the external dimension of eib interventions; strengthening the eib's governance framework, transparency and control.
‒ the european union is experiencing an unprecedented structural crisis. cohesion policy is no longer a reality. the budgetary treaty and economic governance prevent national states from being able to pursue policies for the development of their economies which serve the best interests of countries and peoples. the eib's results, with some eur 75 billion invested and 400 enterprises supported, represent only a drop in the bucket compared to the levels of investment required. the report is flawed. it does not provide information on the geographical distribution of this investment and the aggregation of smes with medium-cap companies, which may employ up to 3,000 people, and it does not allow us to assess the contribution of this support to social and territorial cohesion. what we see, particularly in the juncker plan, where the eib plays an important role, is that the objectives of cohesion have little weight in a european union which is increasingly serving the interests of the big economic groups, monopoly capital and the great european powers.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently at an impasse. cohesion policy died for lack of means. the budgetary treaty and economic governance prevent national governments from being able to move forward with policies to revive their economies. in short, we are at an impasse and there is no prospect, within the framework of the european institutions, of a relaunch of economic growth on a solid basis. in this context, the eib's results, with some eur 75 billion invested and 400 enterprises supported, represent only a drop in the bucket compared to the investment gap and what needs to be done. we have no information on the geographical distribution of this investment and the aggregation of smes with medium-sized enterprises, which may employ up to 3000 people, and we are unable to assess the contribution of this support to social and territorial cohesion. what we see and read, particularly in the juncker plan, where the eib plays an important role, is that the objectives of cohesion have little weight in an eu increasingly at the service of big business and capital.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the 2014 annual report on the european investment bank (eib), as i believe that the text provides greater coherence and clearer messages for the eib following the negotiations on the commitment amendments, in particular as regards complementarity with the european structural and investment funds and other public funds. the report also calls on the eib to: develop and implement a comprehensive approach to respond to the serious challenges posed by the flow of migrants to europe, including enhanced operations in the countries of origin of these flows as well as in countries directly bordering the countries of origin; prioritise investments to accelerate recovery and increase productivity, especially in promoting youth employment; improve environmental sustainability and climate action.
‒ in recent years, the international community has witnessed a trend towards attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world, such as the most recent attacks on doctors without borders health centres in kunduz, afghanistan, on 3 october 2015 and in razah, yemen, on 10 january 2016. respect for international humanitarian law is urgently needed, and the un security council has a clear role to play in respecting international law and humanitarian workers. support for the un security council to be urged to use all available instruments, such as the use of specific measures, the creation of fact-finding missions or commissions of inquiry, or judicial mechanisms such as the icc, for the security council to not veto decisions on humanitarian issues, and for acts that may constitute violations of these standards to be systematically investigated and for suspects to be brought to justice.
in writing. in recent years, the international community has witnessed a distressing trend towards the conduct of attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world. there has also been an unprecedented increase in the denial of aid and humanitarian access, the execution of civilians and humanitarian personnel, detention under extreme conditions and the use of civilians as hostages or slaves. i condemn the attacks on hospitals and schools, which are prohibited by international law, and recognize that these acts may constitute serious violations of the geneva conventions as well as war crimes under the rome statute of the icc.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law. in the last ten years there has been an increase in attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world, targeting children, students, medical personnel, patients and humanitarian workers. the eu must therefore always be at the forefront of humanitarian aid and the protection of human rights.
‒ the report notes an increase in attacks on schools, hospitals, civilian targets in armed conflicts, the denial of humanitarian aid to a large number of people affected by these armed conflicts and the execution of civilians and humanitarian personnel. it reaffirms the centrality of international humanitarian law and the protection it affords, and condemns its violation. general principles that we agree on. we note, however, that you are completely unaware of the real causes of the conflicts in which these criminal actions take place. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. what about israel's criminal record of attacking un schools, arresting and killing children? what about the role of saudi arabia in the yemen conflict? or the innocent victims of the american drones? this is a tremendous hypocrisy at a time when the eu is today setting an example around the world of the violation of the most basic human rights in its response to the humanitarian refugee crisis.
‒ we follow the general principles that guide the discussion. we cannot, however, allow the real causes of the conflicts in which these criminal actions take place to be completely ignored. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. what about israel's criminal record of attacking un schools, arresting and killing children? what about the role of saudi arabia in the yemen conflict? or the innocent victims of the american drones? this is a tremendous hypocrisy at a time when the eu is today setting an example around the world of the violation of the most basic human rights in its response to the humanitarian refugee crisis.
‒ transparency in the functioning of the institutions is a fundamental element of democracy, allowing citizens to scrutinise the activities of their representatives. at european level, this transparency is all the more important given the complexity and sometimes remoteness of the union's decision-making process. this does not mean, however, that there is no place for confidentiality, especially when it benefits the union's capacity for action without jeopardizing the right of citizens to vote. this is the case with trilogues, which allow the co-legislators to reach commitments based on the initial positions reached in public debate. this is also the case in the negotiation of international agreements, where there are necessarily conflicting interests between the parties, which force a win-win game. in both cases, the extremes of this equation total transparency or total secrecy are undesirable. a balance is therefore needed. i am in principle in favour of greater transparency, but each case requires consideration. on the other hand, a report assessing the union in this area should be as objective as possible. i believe that this report is not without excesses, nor ideological analyses instead of factual ones, but on the whole it presents a moderate position, which advocates transparency and depicts the state of the union.
in writing. full transparency is the foundation of citizens' trust in the eu institutions. the right of access to documents is therefore a fundamental right, in particular with a view to ensuring that the exercise of that right is as easy as possible. according to the report, three institutions failed to follow up on many of the recommendations of the resolution on public access to documents for the years 2011-2013. i also regret that the institutions and bodies of the union have not appointed a transparency officer within their management structures to ensure compliance with and improve practices.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: however, because i disagree with the position taken on certain points in the motion for a resolution, i abstained.
‒ the report recalls that, in order to ensure the accountability, legitimacy and democracy of a political system with respect for the rule of law, citizens have the right to know and control: the activities of their representatives once elected or appointed to public office; the decision-making process (including documents released, stakeholders, votes, etc.); the way public funds are allocated and spent and the resulting results. it therefore considers it necessary to publish an electronic register of all these elements and regrets that access to information held by the eu institutions remains difficult for citizens. the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies should develop a proactive approach to transparency, making available to the public in advance as many documents in their possession as possible in the simplest, easiest and most accessible way, ensuring that those documents are translated into all official languages of the eu, including by digital and electronic means, taking into account the needs of all to have access to information. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the systematic secrecy in which free trade agreements such as ttip, ceta or tisa are negotiated and concluded, without the content of the progress of the negotiation processes being accessible. the principle of transparency, which should govern public access to documents of the european institutions, is another of those principles which merely seek to embellish the regulatory edifice of the european union. so it is clear that access to documentation on scandals like luxleaks has been systematically limited to the public and to members of this parliament. it is therefore clear that structures such as the ecb, which it is good to remember, are not elected, but are placed above any democratic scrutiny or control, refusing to make documents available and to provide clarification on matters relating to banking supervision, even to members of this parliament, as happened this week in portugal. practice shows that transparency is nothing more than a glass that is dim, very opaque, in the essential questions.
in writing. according to data from the international labour organisation, there are 2.5 million domestic workers in the eu, 88% of whom are women. this report reiterates the need for common rules for domestic work and care for the elderly, children or disabled. it is important to introduce legislation on a licence for carers and a framework for the recognition of the status of non-professional carers, providing them with a salary and minimum standards of social protection for the time they carry out their tasks.
‒ this report on domestic workers and carers in the european union is an important step towards the recognition of their labour and social rights, for which they have been fighting for a long time. there can be no first- and second-class workers, this class of workers are mostly unregistered, poorly paid and in precarious working situations. the professionalisation of these types of work is urgent, the right to a minimum wage, social security, decent pensions, health and safety at work are rights that cannot be postponed. i voted yes.
‒ i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on domestic workers and healthcare providers in the european union, as i consider that it is the member states' competence to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ domestic work is characterised by the absence of a contract of employment and by late pay, by extended working hours without due remuneration, by disregard for the right to holidays and breaks, by non-payment of holidays and vacations, and by the absence of social security payments. it is characterized by the deepening of the precariousness of work, by labour deregulation and by the attack on collective bargaining. we cannot dissociate the plight of these workers from the increase in poverty, which in portugal already reaches 30% of the population, or from the worsening inequalities that have been deepened by the macroeconomic policies and austerity measures imposed by the eu in response to the economic crisis - policies that have promoted privatisation and the destruction of the public network of services and infrastructure for the care of children, the elderly and the sick, forcing many women to give up work in order to provide such care. this is a reality that results from the neo-liberal policies of impoverishment and exploitation that the european union sponsors and imposes on the member states. the aim of this report is to call for legislative measures to regulate the work of domestic workers and carers, defending collective employment, workers' rights, combating precariousness and eliminating discriminatory measures. we voted yes.
‒ the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu aims to ensure common regulation in all member states for those who, in the context of an employment relationship, perform domestic work for one or more households. the aim is therefore to provide workers with a social protection framework similar to the rights enjoyed by workers with legally regulated employment contracts, i.e. a guarantee of a living wage, regulated working hours, paid leave, health and safety at work, retirement pensions, maternity/paternity leave and sick leave, among others. the burden of responsibility for housework falls primarily on women, and it is a low-paying and undervalued job. according to the ilo, 29.9% of domestic workers are not covered by national labour legislation and the fact that domestic work is not considered regular work limits their social protection rights. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is essential that the eu establishes a legal framework for the professionalisation of domestic work and care as genuine work, in order to guarantee better working conditions for women who perform these functions in an unregulated way.
‒ we do not dissociate the plight of these domestic workers from the increase in poverty, which in portugal already reaches 30% of the population, or from the worsening inequalities that have been deepened by the macroeconomic policies and austerity measures imposed by the eu in response to the economic crisis. domestic work is characterised by the absence of a contract of employment and by late pay, by extended working hours without due remuneration, by disregard for the right to holidays and breaks, by non-payment of holidays and vacations, and by the absence of social security payments. policies that have promoted the privatization and destruction of the public network of services and infrastructure for the care of children, the elderly and the sick, forcing many women to give up work in order to provide such care. this is a reality that results from the neo-liberal policies of impoverishment and exploitation that the european union sponsors and imposes on the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kuneva report, as i consider it essential that the european union should present a set of instruments in the field of domestic and care work and introduce a general framework for the professionalisation of domestic and care work, leading to the recognition and standardisation of relevant professional skills. i would stress that in many member states, domestic work is carried out in the form of undeclared work in the informal economy, giving rise to abusive and unequal treatment or harassment, as these workers are 'invisible' and live in isolation from other workers performing similar functions and tasks. some 2.5 million people work in the care sector or in the service of a household, 88% of whom are women and immigrants. it is necessary that these workers be protected by the labour law of the member states and that they be granted a status. i therefore support the proposal in this report for the eu-wide recognition of domestic and care work as genuine work, since the recognition of this occupational sector is likely to reduce undeclared work and promote social integration.
‒ digitalisation has revolutionized and radically changed the way people receive and transmit information, communicate, relate, study and work, creating new opportunities for participation in public and political debate, as well as in education and the labour market, opening up new perspectives for an independent life and bringing with it enormous economic potential for the european union and beyond, with repercussions not only on markets but also on society in general. these developments have enormous potential for empowering women, providing them with access to information and knowledge through non-conventional means and offering a platform for expression. i support the reintke report because i consider it vital that the full potential of the information society and icts is exploited in empowering women and guaranteeing their rights and freedoms.
in writing. in europe, only 9% of programmers and 19% of ict entrepreneurs are women. women, especially those who are more active online, may be more threatened and harassed or harassed, and this is halfway to actual physical violence. the legal framework to prevent such cases often exists, but not enough steps have been taken to adapt them to the digital age. the police and judicial authorities need to be better prepared and cooperate closely at european level, because the internet operates on a cross-border level. the report sets out concrete instruments to change this, such as more targeted investments in this area, especially those that make it possible for women to have access to funds to set up small businesses. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age. an information society offers advantages in terms of wealth and knowledge creation, and gender equality in the information society and ict should be achieved.
‒ in europe, only 9% of software developers are women, only 19% of workers in management positions in the information and communication technologies (ict) sector are women (compared to 45% in other service sectors) and women represent only 19% of entrepreneurs (compared to 54% in other service sectors). these data reflect that the digital world currently presents a huge gap between women and men in the ict sector. i agree with the rapporteur that ict and the internet have enormous potential in promoting women's empowerment, rights and freedoms and gender equality, regardless of age, disability, genetic characteristics, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, social or ethnic origin, religion or belief or economic status. i am in favour of full inclusion of women in this area, with increased visibility of women in the digital environment and with better gender equality.
‒ digitalisation has revolutionized and radically changed the way people receive and transmit information, communicate, relate, study and work, and has a fundamental impact on the labour market. however, women still have difficulty accessing the ict sector, where they represent only 30% of the workforce. the report presents a set of positions which we follow: massive internet access and a greater emphasis on free and open source software, as well as measures aimed at ensuring women's access to the information society; the commission and the member states must safeguard social protection and the fundamental rights of workers, as well as collective bargaining, and combat precarious working conditions; believes that education and training are key to empowering women in the digital age; stresses the need to combat violence against women in the context of the digitalised world. however, it defends the digital single market strategy, the benefits of more flexible labour practices and mechanisms such as teleworking, and the promotion of women's indebtedness through 'entrepreneurship' loans, in the logic of 'self-employment', neoliberal views that we reject. reasons for our abstention
‒ digitalisation has radically changed the way people communicate, study and work. new technologies have provided greater autonomy in accessing information and knowledge by unconventional means, offering new channels of communication and new perspectives in the labour market. however, the report reveals that only 9% of women are advanced in software development and only 19% of workers in senior positions in the ict sector are women. the constraints faced by women in the field of ict are associated with the following factors: persistent stereotypes, a relative absence of female role models and limited visibility of women in this sector, particularly in leadership positions. this report also shows that women are subjected to more threats, harassment or harassment, which may culminate in actual physical violence. it therefore calls on the member states to enforce existing legislation against cyberviolence, cyberstalking, cyberbullying and cyberharassment. i voted in favour of this report because it provides the necessary tools not only for promoting gender equality and helping women, but also for encouraging more women to enter the digital labour market.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation has revolutionized and radically changed the way people receive and transmit information, communicate, relate, study and work, and has a fundamental impact on the labour market. however, women still have difficulty accessing the ict sector, where they represent only 30% of the workforce. the report advocates the widespread availability of the internet as a basic service needed by all, and now an essential tool for people's daily lives, in the family, professional, educational and training contexts and the integration of a gender perspective in all digital initiatives. the commission also proposes that greater emphasis be placed on free and open source software; free access to broadband, at least in public spaces; and that member states establish multiannual action plans with the aim of increasing women's access to the information society.
‒ i voted in favour of the reintke report, as i consider it essential to promote gender equality in ict companies. i would stress the call in this report to find a solution to the serious under-representation of women in the ict sector, particularly at the top level and on boards of directors. to this end, it is also essential to ensure the mainstreaming of a gender perspective in the education sector through the promotion of digital literacy and the participation of women and young people in ict education and training. the integration of programming, new media and technologies into school curricula and all types of education and training, including for teaching staff, is particularly important in order to reduce and eliminate digital skills gaps and to encourage girls and young women to pursue careers in the field of technology. i also stress the importance of providing sufficient resources and funding to enable research and data collection on how digital services can be better used and leveraged to help women and promote gender equality.
mr president, the implementation of these two instruments, the iti and the clld, is guided by economic, social and territorial cohesion, but also by urban and town development with the aim of achieving the objectives of strategy 2020. and no one better than local authorities will be able to indicate the territorial objectives of their communities, in a logic of national understanding, thus implementing european cohesion policy. this requires the definition of strategies in the early stages of the implementation process with regional and local actors, in particular in terms of specific and specialised training, technical and financial support resulting from an effective partnership between the regions or member states and the european union. this is why it is important that local, regional, national and european authorities cooperate to ensure that budgets for technical assistance are allocated to local authorities, thus avoiding duplication of existing structures. we are talking about the empowerment of regional and local structures as being fundamental to the full realisation of economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, which should, in our view, give special attention to projects aimed at adapting localities and regions to the new demographic reality and countering the resulting imbalances. above all, we ensure that lags have 49% of the voting rights so that the basic principle for the top is realised and that is to bring the citizen closer to europe. it means that this parliament understands and reinforces the fundamental role of local government, which encourages the involvement of regional and local governments in the strategy of regional and territorial development. for our part, we are committed to ensuring that all types of european funding reach all european regions, in particular the local authorities in the outermost regions, which are often less privileged in hearing and deciding on european investments.
the european union's cohesion policy is one of the main factors for the solidarity-based development of its territory. designed to tackle disparities and close the gap in access to opportunities for european citizens, cohesion policy is a key tool in reversing the cycle of stagnation into which the eu has been plunged since the financial crisis that began in 2008. given its importance, the process of implementing cohesion policy should be given particular attention by the european union. the delays in its implementation and the difficulty in combining it with other tools to support development, growth, employment and investment represent missed opportunities at a time when the eu is facing difficulties that require the mobilisation of all available resources. it is essential to speed up the implementation of the cohesion funds, to facilitate their combination with other funds and to reward good governance in the application of resources, by applying the principle of subsidiarity in an intelligent way, favouring local implementation within the framework of broader strategies of aggregation and progress.
madam president, although traceability of fishery products is required by european legislation to ensure that a given product can be identified and its production, handling, processing, packaging and dispatch process can be known, the results of a recent study by an ngo indicated that serious errors in the labelling of fish served in brussels, including in the canteens of the european institutions, were detected in about one third of the samples. if this is happening in the heart of europe, where this legislation comes from, then imagine what is happening in the rest of our union, with serious consequences for consumers, but above all with serious damage to our fishermen, who are seeing their income reduced by illegal and unfair competition, especially by simply replacing them with low-value processed fish, such as fillets, from countries with standards much lower than ours, thus paying for one thing when you end up eating another. it is essential to comply with the legislation and ensure that fishery products are traceable from the boat to the plate, i.e. it must be a continuous process throughout the entire line, because only in this way will we be able to avoid fraud and unfair competition. in addition to food security issues, care must also be taken to ensure the control and sustainability of fisheries resources, as the implementation of traceability systems should ensure the comprehensive monitoring of catches, leading to the consequent sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. finally, we must also ensure the appropriate value added of high-quality fishery products caught with sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing gear, as is the case in the azores, where, because of this unfair competition, the commercial value of the precious species caught in their waters is not compatible with their high quality and with sustainable fishing methods.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is the world's largest importer of fish and has fleets that operate globally. this in itself requires traceability on the characteristics, origin and type of processing targeted to aquaculture resources. i come from the azores, an outermost region of europe, where the sea has high biodiversity but low biomass, and where it is caught by a small-scale fleet what some of the great chefs call the best fish in the world. i therefore feel particularly sensitive to this problem. it is the responsibility of the european union to monitor the mechanisms used to certify and identify the processing of products and to protect the quality of origin and the quality of our artisanal fleets. i should also like to point out that it was not any administration or authority that alerted us to this matter, but an environmental non-governmental organisation. this reinforces the need to stimulate citizenship in europe.
i would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the agreements under discussion. as the socialist and democrat shadow rapporteur for the fisheries agreement with liberia, i was concerned about aspects relating to the transparency of the relationship, respect for liberia and the values of the european union, including human and workers' rights. i was also concerned about the appropriateness of the funds involved and about compliance with the generally established international environmental standards. the republic of liberia has experienced extreme difficulties in recent years, involving internal conflict and instability of government institutions. after two civil wars and hundreds of thousands of deaths, liberia's economy and politics are slowly recovering. i personally have never had any doubts about supporting this fisheries partnership agreement, the first and only one liberia has. for this country in the process of structuring itself, it is crucial to encourage relations that strengthen ties with the international community. both fisheries agreements under discussion here - liberia and mauritania - allow the european union fleets to expand their fishing opportunities, use only the biologically renewable marine resources not used by each country, open the door to cooperation with local industry and increase food security in europe. so you have my full support.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, we know very well there is no future for the european union if the european union is not able to provide a future for its young people. yes, of course the european union can create a lot of good jobs for young people in the activities of the future, in the energy transition, in the digital revolution, in health and in creative industries. we have a young generation with a lot of potential for creativity and innovation. yes, we have made some progress on reducing youth unemployment, but the youth unemployment rate remains too high – above 20%. moreover, we have huge divergences: 45% in spain, 30% in portugal. we have not mentioned greece – which is above 50% – in italy it is also very high, as it is in slovakia and croatia. so something is badly wrong in the way the european union is working and this has huge implications, not only in social and economic terms, but also in political terms, as we can see. so my plea is to adapt all the tools we have to go to the heart of the problem: very high employment and also very deep divergences. this means to reshape the way we are using the youth initiative, the structural funds and the investment plan, which should tackle economic and social cohesion. but more than that, in the eurozone, we need to have a fiscal capacity to deal with these divergences.
madam president, commissioner, for too many years the european institutions have been selling the same policy packages and deregulation as the cure for all ills in europe, including the problem of youth unemployment. you still come here today to speak and continue to present internships. but internships, commissioner, are not jobs. it is something else, but it is not a job. these policies have been imposed on member states, often through financial blackmail, financial pressure and threats, but the problem continues to worsen and growth is a mirage. and it's not just unemployment, it's also precariousness and it's poverty wages. none of these measures, commissioner, has improved the economy, and the european commission is making more and more pious statements, each one more hypocritical than the last. the recipe is still the same and it doesn't solve the problems. commissioner, nobody expects anything from the commission any more, but at least let the member states choose some of their options, because perhaps doing the opposite of what the commission recommends is the solution for growth and job creation. (the speaker accepts to answer a question on the 'blue card' (submitted pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, if i understand your question, i agree with your comment. but tell me, then, what is the commission's specific role in dealing directly with tax havens? i have not seen anything yet, and in fact controlling, or rather eliminating, tax havens would be halfway to achieving consolidation of public accounts at european level.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is experiencing a profound crisis of confidence. every day, we debate threats, and there is a widespread perception that the answers are not up to the challenge. on the political level, we are in a negative spiral and this is exploited by populism and nationalism. the time has therefore come for us to fight without hesitation for this project of peace and prosperity, which has made the european union the region of the world with the highest average quality of life and the greatest sustainability for the planet. there are many battles to be fought, but one of the most important is the fight for this generation: a skilled, cosmopolitan, innovative and entrepreneurial generation, which must have the opportunity to rescue the future - its future and the future of the european project. and if this is a crisis of confidence, the response, commissioner, must be credible. the programmes for the qualification, exchange and entrepreneurial training of young people must be provided with the necessary resources. it's not about the expense. it is about investing in our most reproductive capital - in human capital, in hope, in the european renaissance, a renaissance more urgent than ever.
madam president, the european economic recovery is still fragile and slow and has proved insufficient to break definitively with the terrible figures of youth unemployment. we are witnessing the degradation of an entire generation, with serious consequences for the foreseeable future, putting pressure on the sustainability of our social security systems. almost 20% of young europeans are unemployed, and that is still too worrying a figure to be dismissed. as a native of the azores, an ultraperipheral region, i would remind you that young people in these regions, also in europe, are still struggling with unemployment levels of over 50%. we need other policies in these regions. to break this cycle of youth unemployment in a sustainable way, we need to promote forms of cooperation between governments, businesses, educational institutions and social partners, to adapt national education and training systems, matching skills to labour market needs and promoting a targeted and sustained development of our businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are key to generating growth.
madam president, in this debate everyone has pointed out that the main factor behind the high number of unemployed people, the unemployed young people, is the economic and financial crisis in europe. in fact, and unfortunately, throughout europe there are more than 20 million young people who still lack a job opportunity. if it is true that the youth guarantee programme has helped in several countries - and portugal was an example of this - to reduce some of the number of young people unemployed, by giving young people opportunities and also by allowing companies to invest in human capital, if this was a reality, the fact is that, now that this programme has come to an end, it is urgent to plan for the next phase. i would like to leave you with a request, commissioner, that future youth employment programmes be prepared, with concrete measures to improve the transition to the labour market, and that programmes be prepared with concrete measures to facilitate the creation of start-ups and technological projects. commissioner, let us create real programmes to give concrete support to entrepreneurship. there is a whole generation of young people who are longing for answers and for europe to give them these opportunities.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this interesting debate. i see that there is one point we all agree on. we must not have a lost generation. making sure young people get a foot in the labour market remains therefore one of our highest priorities. this is first and foremost important for the young, to allow them to realise themselves through work, to have a decent wage that allows them to rent or buy accommodation and/or to start a family, that takes care of their professional development, but it is also important for society at large. young people tend to be better educated and computer literate. we need them to support productivity and growth in europe. delivering on the objectives of the youth guarantee requires strategic reforms to achieve more successful transitions from school to the labour market. it is a complex programme that requires time and effort in the member states, but these efforts are starting to pay off. progress has been carefully monitored within the european semester, including those country-specific recommendations where appropriate. in reply to some questions: to marian harkin: the majority of the member states concerned have effectively used advance payment and today more than one million young people have benefited from the scheme directly. however a few member states might not be in a position to have used up to 50% of the advance payment by 23 may. in that case, they will have to pay back the advance but they will not lose the money as that will stay in the youth employment initiative envelope allocated to their regions. in reply to ms pervenche berès: at the end of the budgetary conciliation last year the three institutions agreed to assign to the commission the task of assessing the progress made in the execution of the youth employment initiative this year and, taking into account the available budgetary margins, of considering whether additional funding should be proposed after 2016. this assessment is ongoing and while a few member states might be obliged to pay back the increased advance payments they received one year ago, the results obtained so far deserve to be taken into consideration in the final decisions. on the calls for more growth and programmes, let me remind you that the youth employment initiative is only a part of the solution. there are, for example, specific programmes for small and medium enterprises and there is also the investment plan. moreover, the commission has mobilised a range of instruments to support implementation, for example policy support, mutual learning between member states, outreach campaigns. the commission will report in october on the progress of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me take this opportunity to signal once again our full commitment to addressing youth unemployment and let me stress once more that the council, obviously in close cooperation with the commission, will pursue its efforts to address the challenges and closely monitor the progress made. let us not forget the importance of structural reforms in the member states. the council, the commission, and parliament will not be able to provide the member states with the one and only silver bullet. it is up to the member states to act swiftly and in time. ms marian harkin asked for concrete numbers and the commissioner has already replied. she also asked whether the youth guarantee could have been implemented faster; the answer is yes. it has taken time for youth guarantee measures to be put in place, and therefore a complete evaluation is not yet possible, but we are getting there, slowly but surely. what struck me most in this debate were the words of ms rodrigues. europe has no future if we cannot offer a future to our youth. i could not agree more, and therefore this is an important debate. i also agree with ms mcintyre, who said that we need to create the right environment for businesses to grow so that they can hire young europeans entering the labour market. but, as i have just said, this is not so much a matter of european funding programmes, it is first and foremost a task for member states. they need to implement the right structural policies in order to foster growth and jobs, and we need to keep using the european semester and country-specific recommendations to push the member states in the right direction and make them act accordingly.
in writing. more than 20 million people are unemployed in the eu, 22.8% of them young people. some member states have very high youth unemployment rates, notably greece (57.7%), spain (54%), italy (43%), cyprus (36%) and portugal (34.8%). 8.3 million young people under the age of 25 are not in employment, 19% of children are at risk of poverty, 8% of people are victims of severe material deprivation, 15% of children leave school without completing secondary education, 24.2% of people are at risk of poverty, working poor represent one third of working-age adults at risk of poverty and the number of homeless people in the eu reaches 410,000 per night. this is the picture of a catastrophic combination of eu austerity policies and neo-liberal structural reforms that has contributed decisively to unprecedented levels of investment in the economy, while purchasing power and domestic demand have declined and income inequality and poverty have increased, as is seen most dramatically in the countries under the auspices of the troika.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a people's europe, it is imperative to simplify and clarify union law, making it more accessible and easier for citizens to understand, which allows for new opportunities and possibilities to benefit from the union rights that are recognised to it. this objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a dispersion of numerous provisions, amended on several occasions, often substantially. in this regard, i support this report which codifies regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community with the aim of simplifying and clarifying union law.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in accordance with article 103 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the existing legal framework for protection against subsidised imports from non-eu countries is codified in a regulation. since the amendments are codified, they cannot constitute a substantive change and must therefore be confined to a mere compilation of the existing texts. i am therefore voting in favour of this resolution, because i think it would be good if the regulation of this matter were not scattered and consisted of a single legislative instrument.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union by means of a new regulation which will replace the various acts incorporated therein. regulation aimed at protecting 'eu industries' by establishing a procedure to apply such protection in the legal framework. it sets out measures to take account of situations of tax evasion and the influence this has on the products that are imported. it lays down provisions for the protection of state and commercial secrets. this proposal is a formal amendment to the text, incorporating a number of amendments to the legislation since 2009, and does not make substantive changes that change the substance of the regulation. although this is a codification process, we do not find ourselves in a set of references and expressions that are updated, such as 'eu industries' which point in a direction of eu federalisation, disregarding the diversity, development profile and unique characteristics of industries within each member state, reasons which motivated our abstention.
‒ considering that it is important to simplify and clarify union law so that it can be interpreted more easily and correctly by european citizens, this proposal codifies council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 in the terms considered relevant by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament gave a favourable opinion on this subject to the recommendation of the consultative group of the three institutions and, since the proposal is simply a codification of the texts without any substantive changes, i voted in favour.
‒ according to the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this is merely the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ in the context of a people's europe, great importance is attached to simplifying and clarifying european law. for this reason, in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of the legal provisions, normative acts which are subject to frequent amendments have been codified. in this respect, i was in favour of the adoption of this report which codified council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, while preserving the content of the consolidated acts in their entirety.
‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal at issue is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting. simplifying and clarifying european union law is a central objective of the eu to make it more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand. the scattered nature of numerous provisions, which have been amended on several occasions, often substantially (which requires reading both the original act and the acts amending it), means that, for reasons of legal clarity and transparency, the rules must be codified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on protection against dumped imports from countries outside the european union because the proposal in question is really a simple codification of existing texts without any substantive change.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the content of the consolidated acts in full, limiting itself to bringing them together and only to the formal changes required by the consolidation process itself.
‒ in accordance with article 103 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the existing regulatory framework for protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union is to be codified by means of a regulation. this is a purely technical matter, since amendments cannot constitute substantive changes and must therefore be confined to the mere compilation of existing texts. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because i think it would be an advantage if the regulation of this matter were not scattered and were made up of a single legislative body.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. the present proposal preserves the previous content in full, but merely makes formal amendments. this regulation concerns the protection of industries from the importation of dumped products produced in non-eu countries. the aim is to protect 'union industries' by establishing a procedure for implementing such protection in the legal framework. it lays down provisions for the protection of state and commercial secrets. export prices and dumping margins are set. although this is a codification process, we do not find ourselves in a set of references and expressions that are updated, such as 'eu industries', which point in a direction of eu federalisation, disregarding the diversity, development profile and unique characteristics of industries within each member state, reasons which motivated our abstention.
‒ considering that it is important to simplify and clarify union law so that it can be interpreted more easily and correctly by european citizens, this proposal codifies council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 in the terms considered relevant by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament having considered the opinion of the consultative group composed of the departments of the three institutions, and having maintained that the proposal is limited to the mere codification of the texts without substantive amendments, i voted in favour.
‒ according to the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, this is merely the codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ this report by mr heidi hautala, member of the committee on legal affairs, aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the new regulation will replace a number of acts now incorporated in the same text, whilst preserving the content of the earlier acts in full, with the formal changes required by the codification process itself. since the aim of this report is to provide greater security, transparency and legislative simplification, i voted in favour of it.
‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal at issue is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
‒ the european union's long-distance fishing fleets have been targeting tropical tuna in the gulf of guinea since the 1950s and currently obtain around 10% of their total tuna catch from the atlantic ocean. these catches consist mainly of bluefin tuna (70%), bigeye tuna (25%) and swordfish (5%). this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean. i voted in favour because the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, of the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, and is a source of great benefit to both parties.
‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean. the 246 152 km2 eez is home to demersal and pelagic fisheries, including tuna and related species. the main objective of the implementation protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for union vessels in the liberian fishing zone, based on the best available scientific advice, in compliance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and, where possible, within the limits of the available surplus. the protocol provides for fishing opportunities in the following categories: 28 purse seiners and 6 surface longliners. the protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of eur 715 000 for the first year, eur 650 000 for the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 for the fifth year. that's why i'm in favour.
‒ the eu has signed fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with 'third countries', through which it provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country's exclusive economic zone (eez). this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean, with an eez of 246 152 km2 containing demersal and pelagic fisheries resources, including tuna and tuna-like species. i agree with the rapporteur that the spa with liberia is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, and that the agreement strengthens cooperation between the union and liberia and, in general, west africa, an important tuna fishing area. i am in favour of the adoption of this agreement on the basis of the report.
‒ the report refers to a legislative resolution establishing a new protocol to the eu-republic of liberia fisheries partnership agreement. the app provides for access for eu vessels to the liberian exclusive zone, based on the best available scientific advice and complying with iccat recommendations, where applicable, within the limits of the available surplus. the protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of eur 715 000 for the first year, eur 650 000 for the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 for the fifth year. this support shall meet the objectives of the national fisheries policy and in particular the needs of the republic of liberia in relation to scientific research, artisanal fishing and monitoring, control and surveillance fisheries and the fight against illegal fishing. it is noted that the capacity development component of liberia's autonomy is higher than that of the previous protocol and deserves support. the establishment of this agreement can be a form of mutually beneficial cooperation and its continuation is therefore supported.
‒ in line with the existing strategic line on sustainable fisheries, and following on from the other partnership agreements concluded in recent years with third countries, the commission has negotiated a new agreement with liberia. liberia already cooperates with the eu through several agreements in the field of marine species conservation, voluntarily applying the standards of good practice in responsible fishing and feeding. in the same way, liberia extends its cooperation with the eu to the fight against illegal fishing and, in particular, this agreement serves to strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance in the liberian exclusive economic zone. the implementation protocol, in addition to quantifying the financial contribution to this third country, guarantees, in return, access rights to eu vessels. this cooperation aims not only at the sustainability of fisheries policy but also at the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the maritime zones of the partner countries. in view of the above, i voted in favour.
‒ this is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, established for a period of 9 years starting from december 2015. the main objective is to establish fishing opportunities for european union vessels in the liberian exclusive zone, in accordance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the annual contribution shall be eur 715 000 in the first year, eur 650 000 in the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 in the fifth year, on a reference base of 6500 tonnes. in addition, an annual amount is allocated for access and the development of liberia's fisheries policy.
‒ the european union (eu) has recently signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements with third countries through which it provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights targeted at a wide range of fishery resources in the partner country's exclusive economic zone (eez). this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (spa) is the first to be signed between the eu and the republic of liberia, with a coastline of 570 km and an eez of 246 152 km2. the eu has cooperated with liberia under several multilateral agreements and specifically in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the conclusion of an ipa with liberia will clearly support the eu in achieving its objectives in the fight against iuu fishing and in promoting the objective of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which aims at the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, which is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ as the socialists and democrats' shadow rapporteur for the fisheries agreement with liberia, i was concerned to verify aspects related to the transparency of the relationship established, respect for the republic of liberia and the values of the european union, including human rights and workers' rights. i was also concerned about the appropriateness of the funds involved and about compliance with the generally established international environmental standards. as this is the first fisheries agreement with this country, there are environmental details which are still in their infancy and which will have to be improved in future renewals. i personally have never had any doubts about supporting this agreement with liberia. this is a country that is still fragile and with institutions in the process of being structured, so it is crucial to stimulate cross-border relations that strengthen ties with the international community. this agreement in particular is a good indicator of what europe's role in the world can actually be. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this fisheries agreement between the european union and liberia.
in writing. ‒ this report refers to a new legislative resolution establishing a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community, on the one hand, and the republic of liberia, on the other. the above mentioned app provides for access for eu vessels to the liberian exclusive zone, based on the best available scientific advice and respecting the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), where applicable, within the limits of the available surplus. the protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of eur 715 000 for the first year, eur 650 000 for the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 for the fifth year. it is noted that the capacity development component of liberia's autonomy is higher than that of the previous protocol and deserves support. the establishment of this agreement can be a form of mutually beneficial cooperation and its continuation is therefore supported.
‒ the access of portuguese and other eu vessels to mauritanian waters is for a period of four years. this is the most important fisheries protocol currently signed by the eu with a third country, with a financial contribution of €59.125 million per year: €55 million to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone and €4.125 million to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment and of mauritania's marine protected areas and coastal zones. i voted in favour.
in writing. the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was concluded in 1989 and since then several agreements have been concluded allowing european vessels to fish in mauritian waters. the fisheries agreement with mauritania is one of the few eu fisheries agreements that allows access to mixed fisheries. the new protocol, which has been provisionally applied since 16 november 2015, provides for fishing opportunities for vessels fishing for crustaceans other than lobster and crab. several countries, including portugal, are authorized to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years. for portuguese vessels, the protocol provides for fishing opportunities of 250 tonnes for crustaceans, with the exception of lobster and crab. the eu's financial contribution to the african country is €59.125 million per year: €55 million to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone and €4.125 million to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment and of mauritania's marine protected areas and coastal areas. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the eu and mauritania have had a fisheries agreement since 1989 and since then several agreements have been concluded which have allowed european vessels to fish in mauritania's waters. the current partnership agreement expired at the end of 2014. following lengthy negotiations, on 10 july 2015 the european union and mauritania initialled a new protocol which will allow eu fishermen to operate in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. i agree with the rapporteur that this new protocol is a major step forward in relation to the previous one and that mauritania has made new commitments on transparency and preferential access to the european fleet. i am in favour of the conclusion of this protocol on the basis of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report refers to a legislative resolution establishing a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania. the app provides eu vessels with access to a wide variety of fish and other non-fish species in the mauritanian exclusive economic zone. the new protocol provides for an annual eu financial contribution of eur 59.125 million over four years, comprising: - eur 55 million for access to the exclusive economic zone of mauritania; - eur 4.125 million to support policies for the sustainability of the fisheries sector in mauritania. these amounts correspond to a reduction on the amounts transferred under the previous protocol, which were eur 70 million. however, this reduction reflects changes in most quotas and a more realistic forecast of catches. on the other hand, there is an improvement in the value used to strengthen territorial capacity in mauritania, its autonomy and the development of its potential in the fisheries sector. we also welcome the incorporation of 60% of mauritanian workers on european ships, implicitly with the same rights as europeans. the signing of the protocol is supported.
‒ the first agreement between the eu and mauritania on fisheries dates back to 1989 and since then several agreements have been concluded which have enabled european fishing vessels to enter the exclusive economic zone of mauritania. this protocol will allow the activity of eu fishermen in mauritanian waters to be extended for a period of four years. the agreement also negotiated a significant advance on the commitments made by mauritania on transparency and preferential access for european fleets, thus preventing the bitter experience of past years, during which the activity of european fleets was seconded to other foreign fleets. the substantial cost-benefit improvement compared to the previous agreements is also noteworthy, due to a significant decrease of the annual financial contribution of around eur 12 million. the legislator, however, increased the funds allocated to promoting the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in mauritania, in order to promote the environmental sustainability model advocated by the european union also in the field of fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the current partnership with mauritania dates from 2006, was renewed for two years in 2012 and expired at the end of 2014. the european union and mauritania established a new protocol on 10 july 2015 to allow eu vessels to enter mauritania for a period of 4 years. the protocol has been provisionally applied since november 2015. the annual financial contribution for the authorisation of eu vessels to fish in the mauritanian exclusive zone is 55 million. in addition, eur 4.125 million per year is provided in the form of financial support to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the environmental protection of marine and coastal areas. it is worth remembering that 42.9% of the population of mauritania is unemployed. it's one of the poorest countries in the world.
‒ after lengthy negotiations, the european union (eu) and mauritania signed a new protocol on 10 july, which allows eu vessels to fish in mauritian waters for a period of four years (which will give some stability to the european fishing fleet moving to mauritania). in return for this agreement, the eu will contribute €55 million. in addition, eur 16.5 million will be paid in the form of financial support to promote sustainable development in the environmental, fisheries and coastal and marine protected areas sectors. in concluding this agreement with the eu, mauritania has made new commitments on transparency and priority access for the european fleet, and this agreement should serve as a model for future agreements signed by the eu with third countries. the balance achieved between the financial contribution and the fishing opportunities is highly positive thanks to the substantial improvements in the cost-benefit ratio. as i said earlier, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the european union's most important fisheries agreements. this agreement allows for a major expansion of fishing opportunities for the european union fleets, ensures that they use only renewable marine biological resources that are not usable by this country, opens doors to cooperation with local industry and increases food security in europe. i believe that the european fleets have a role that goes beyond the simple catching of fish. the european fleets have values and attitudes that are not to be neglected. it seems to me therefore particularly important that this agreement should last for four years, thus allowing for stability in operations and the establishment of lasting partnerships between companies and institutions of the european union and mauritania. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this fisheries partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report refers to a new legislative resolution to establish a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community, on the one hand, and the islamic republic of mauritania, on the other. the above mentioned app provides eu vessels with access to a wide variety of fish and other non-fish species in the mauritanian exclusive economic zone. the new protocol provides for an annual eu financial contribution of eur 59.125 million for the four-year period. these amounts correspond to a reduction on the amounts transferred under the previous protocol, which were eur 70 million. however, this reduction reflects changes in most quotas and a more realistic forecast of catches. on the other hand, there is an improvement in the value used to strengthen territorial capacity in mauritania, its autonomy and the development of its potential in the fisheries sector. we also welcome the incorporation of 60% of mauritanian workers on european ships, implicitly with the same rights as europeans.
in writing. - i support the buonanno report which approves the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system between the european union and its member states and the republic of korea. the agreement, signed on 9 september 2006, subject to its conclusion at a later date, aims to stimulate, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in the framework of a global satellite navigation system for civil use.
‒ this type of agreement is very important for the creation of bilateral partnerships that lead to economic development of all parties. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2006, the cooperation agreement on a civil satellite navigation system (gnss) was concluded between the then eec, its member states and the republic of korea. the agreement aims to stimulate, facilitate and strengthen cooperation between the parties in the framework of a global satellite navigation system for civil use. given the importance of this agreement for the parties involved, on the one hand, and taking into account the new framework of competence established by the treaty of lisbon for binding the eu to international agreements, on the other hand, the binding of the union to this agreement is of utmost importance. i am therefore voting in favour of the draft decision, since the union's commitment to this agreement is essential to ensure a stable and healthy global environment.
‒ the objective of this agreement is to encourage, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of korea on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). this agreement, among other aspects, involves activity in fields such as radio spectrum, scientific research and training, industrial cooperation, certification and regulatory measures, trade development and security. the presuppositions of this agreement, which appear harmless, actually conceal what constitutes a step towards destabilisation in that region of the world. if, on the one hand, it is recognized that there are positive aspects in terms of scientific and economic development for both sides, on the other hand, the way is opened to a new chapter of intervention in the permanent conflict with north korea, in which we see new developments every day. in the short term, the agreement may be extended in the fields of encryption and information security (infosec), security architecture systems (space, ground and users), security control capabilities and the exchange of confidential information relating to satellite navigation (galileo). i therefore vote against.
‒ satellite navigation systems establish geospatial positioning by means of artificial satellites. this technique allows receivers on the earth's surface to determine its location by comparing it with signals from satellites. since the global navigation satellite system (gnss) has instrumental utility for the political-military services of the member states as well as various civilian uses (in the fields of transport, fleet management, science and geodesy and cartography), this draft resolution serves to approve the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with the republic of korea. in this context, the report has earned my favourable vote, which approves the maximisation of the coverage capacity of the member states, this time by means of association with korean space technology.
‒ the republic of korea is a country with high technological and space applications capabilities. it is also an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. the european commission, on the basis of the authorisation of the council of 18 july 2005, has negotiated a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other. the agreement was signed in september 2006 and the signatory member states and the republic of korea have completed their respective procedures necessary for its entry into force. in accordance with article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the commission is to propose to the council a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on behalf of the european union, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. we are therefore faced with a draft legislative resolution which is formally largely technical and legislative in nature and, in that respect, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the apparently harmless assumptions of this agreement actually conceal what constitutes a step towards destabilisation in that region of the world. if, on the one hand, it is recognized that there are positive aspects in terms of scientific and economic development for both sides, on the other hand, the way is opened to a new chapter of intervention in the permanent conflict with north korea, in which we see new developments every day. in the short term, the agreement may be extended in the fields of encryption and information security (infosec), security architecture systems (space, ground and users), security control capabilities and the exchange of confidential information relating to satellite navigation (galileo). i therefore vote against.
‒ territorial cohesion has been recognised as a fundamental objective of the european union and enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in order to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion, two new tools have been created for the 2014-2020 programming period under the european structural and investment funds: community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). a bottom-up approach and the involvement of local actors are essential if we are to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy. it is essential to include youth in territorial development instruments, in particular in the clld. i support the ruža tomašić report because if we harness the full potential of cohesion policy, we will be contributing to improving employment opportunities, to promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, to poverty reduction and to social inclusion.
‒ territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective of the european union, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the 2014-2020 generation of cohesion policy provides for and encourages the use of integrated and local-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as territorial governance. integrated and local approaches are intended to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public intervention by responding to the specific needs of the territories and promoting their attractiveness. it is therefore necessary to define strategies in the early stages of the implementation process, in collaboration with regional and local actors, in particular at the level of specific and specialised training, technical and financial support, in the context of an effective partnership between the regions, the member states and the eu. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ territorial cohesion is one of the objectives promoted by the union, in line with the provisions of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the eu cohesion policy framework for 2014-2020 provides for and encourages the use of integrated and local-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as territorial governance. in this context, community-local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) initiatives are innovative cohesion policy tools and can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, creating quality local employment, sustainable urban development and pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore vote in favour of this, as i believe that strengthening regional and local structures is fundamental to the full realisation of cohesion policy.
‒ this report focuses on the role of local and regional authorities as enablers of regional development and, consequently, as promoters of territorial and social cohesion and as potential absorbers of the various eu funds and funding intended to promote such cohesion and development. today, more than 75% of eu citizens live in an urban context, with growing needs in terms of its political, social, economic and cultural organisation. in the european context, there are cities which, on their own, have more population and infrastructure than certain countries or regions of the union. the city context is thus increasingly decisive in the management of public affairs. the response within the eu continues the federalistic logic through direct communication between the european commission and 'the cities', without the intermediation of the member states, ignoring their definition of priorities for their regions, a view we reject. there is a logic to cohesion policies which links the cohesion funds themselves to the whole funding strategy associated with the so-called juncker plan - which aims to directly finance the private sector and subordinate cohesion policy to macroeconomic reforms. even with these fundamental reservations, it is understood that it is important to support policies that are effectively aimed at promoting territorial cohesion.
‒ the new generation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period places greater emphasis on the use of integrated and local-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. in this regard, two new tools were created in the 2014-2020 programming period in order to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). as a member of the regi committee appointed by the group of the european socialists to accompany the report, i managed to get 36 amendments incorporated into the final text put to the vote. i made sure that the regional and local dimension of this funding was not distorted in the document, ensuring: the necessary technical support at the level of specialised training to deal with the difficulties in the application of these instruments; the importance of local and regional authorities not taking a dominant position in the local action groups that would condition initiatives from other social entities; the adaptation of regional and local projects to demographic changes in order to try to reverse the resulting imbalances; the avoidance of duplication of coordination structures; the dissemination of these instruments to local government and an efficient evaluation of the process and results.
‒ territorial cohesion was recognised as a fundamental objective of the european union, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon - a new dimension added to the objectives of social and economic cohesion previously considered (since 1986). in this context, the new generation of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 places greater emphasis on the use of integrated and local-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. the new erdf regulation also establishes a budget limited to specific purposes of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development. two new tools have been created under the european structural and investment funds in the 2014-2020 programming period in order to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). this report aims to assess the implementation of the iti and clld initiatives under the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. i consider this an extremely important exercise in identifying the main challenges encountered and in formulating recommendations to address these challenges, facilitating a more effective implementation of these initiatives on the ground, with the aim of fostering territorial cohesion in particular, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ respect for diversity is one of the values of the european union. to this end, several mechanisms have been defined, one of which, geographically based, is crucial for the autonomous regions of portugal. it is the status of the outermost region. community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) are innovative cohesion policy tools that some member states will use in this way for the first time and that can significantly contribute to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local employment, sustainable urban development and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. it seems to me, however, that these tools will have to be equipped with the appropriate legal and financial tools and that their implementation should be carried out in a participatory manner and in harmony and mutual assistance between all the partners, but above all the european union and the member states. for these reasons, and also because some of the recommendations are the result of information and reports from the committee of the regions, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ territorial cohesion has been recognised as a fundamental objective of the european union and enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in this context, the new generation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period places greater emphasis on the use of integrated and local-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. the new erdf regulation establishes a budget earmarked for specific purposes of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development. under the european structural and investment funds, two new tools were created in the 2014-2020 programming period in order to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). we support the promotion of this local development perspective, but we stress the need to avoid any short-circuiting between the european institutions and local government bodies that could undermine the necessary policy coordination with the central and regional governments of the member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the tomasic report on cohesion policy, as i believe that the proposals presented have the potential to generate a development of solidarity in the eu territory. i would like to highlight two tools included in this report: integrated territorial investment and community-based local development, for which some 5% of the cohesion policy budget will be used. i would stress that, because it is designed to combat asymmetries and close the gap in access to opportunities for european citizens, and because of the volume of resources it mobilises (more than eur 350 billion by 2020), cohesion policy is a key tool in reversing the cycle of stagnation into which the eu has been plunged since the financial crisis that began in 2008. i regret that, given its importance, the process of implementing cohesion policy does not merit particular attention from the eu. the delays in its implementation and the difficulty in combining it with other tools to support development, growth, employment and investment represent missed opportunities at a time when the eu is facing difficulties that require the mobilisation of all available resources.
‒ the production of reliable statistics is essential, in particular, to monitor the main economic aspects, such as developments in current accounts and financial flows, within and outside the eu. the existence of reliable statistics is an essential basis for the monitoring process established under the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. i therefore support the revision of the provisions of the regulation to increase the transparency and granularity of statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 184/2005 in order to bring it into line with the new institutional context. in particular, it aims to identify the powers conferred on the commission and to establish the appropriate procedure for the adoption of measures based on those powers. it is proposed to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts whenever economic and technical developments require updating of data requirements, including deadlines for submission, reviews, extensions and deletions of the data flows listed in annex i, and whenever it is necessary to update the definitions set out in annex ii. in addition, uniform conditions are necessary for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 in terms of quality reports. it is therefore proposed to confer implementing powers on the commission in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 with a view to adopting common quality standards and harmonising the content and periodicity of quality reports. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics contains references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and should be reviewed in the light of the criteria laid down in the treaty. in order to ensure that statistical data are produced in a timely, appropriate, transparent and with the quality and accuracy required in this field, it is important that the commission has the necessary powers in terms of collecting information and ensuring common quality standards, and that member states provide the necessary statistical data. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that access to statistical data is crucial to a clearer and more realistic understanding of economic data.
in writing. the production of reliable statistics allows for consistency and equal treatment in the analysis of economic data from different member states (ms) and is therefore fundamental to the full achievement of the european union's objectives in economic governance frameworks. regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) statistics is a key component of the overall eu framework and is intended to monitor economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. however, the increasing intensity and complexity of international capital flows has disturbed their control and tracking. this conjecture makes the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning more difficult and therefore requires a legislative review of the file. in this context, increased transparency and granularity of statistics on gnp, gni and fdi could contribute to an improvement of the statistical indicators available at present. in future, the updating of the regulation, which i support with my vote, will make it possible to have a more reliable instrument for economic policy decision-making.
‒ statistics in these areas help to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are consistent with the general guidelines of the european union and that they comply with the legal requirements resulting from the eu economic governance frameworks. the existence of reliable statistics is an essential basis for the monitoring process established under the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. the revision of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 provides an opportunity to increase the transparency and granularity of statistics relating to balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi), as well as to take advantage of the latest legal innovations aimed at making such statistics a more reliable instrument for economic policy decision-making purposes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is the need to produce reliable statistics on the balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, taking into account developments in the main economic aspects, current accounts and financial flows, both within and outside the eu. in doing so, we are contributing to greater coherence of member states' economic policies within the framework of eu economic governance. i agree with the importance of making these statistics more transparent, detailed and reliable and stress the urgent need to update the regulation in the light of the provisions of the lisbon treaty, in particular as regards the possibility for the commission to adopt delegated acts. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the overall objective is to remove all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny from all legislative instruments by the end of parliament’s seventh term (june 2014). in the context of the alignment of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 january 2005 on community statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment to the new rules of the tfeu, implementing powers currently conferred upon the commission by that regulation should be provided for by conferring powers on the commission to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts. in addition, the revision of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 represents an occasion for increasing the transparency and the granularity of the bop, its and fdi related statistics as well as for taking advantage of recent legal innovations to make these statistics a more reliable tool for economic policy decisions.
‒ mountain regions represent a significant part (about 30%) of the eu's territory and the whole eu depends on their ecosystem services. these regions are structurally disadvantaged due to their extreme conditions and their ultra-peripheral character, to the extent that many mountain regions face problems of depopulation and ageing populations, which can disrupt the natural generational cycle and lead to a degradation of social standards and quality of life, whereas this situation is often associated with an increase in unemployment, social exclusion and migration to urban centres. mountain regions offer numerous opportunities for achieving the eu's objectives in terms of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources. it is therefore necessary to find appropriate cohesion policies for these less-favoured regions so that they can develop their full potential. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ although mountain regions account for some 28.8% of the territory, they are home to 16.9% of the eu population. these regions face a set of common challenges and at the same time problems specific to each region due to the specificities of their economy, climatic characteristics and the diversity of existing natural resources. while union policies have a major impact on these regions, in particular in the areas of environment and climate change, transport and connectivity, and in the area of entrepreneurship, these policies do not address a specific dimension relating to their condition, just as there is no specific eu policy for mountain regions. i am voting in favour of this because i believe it is essential to create and coordinate specific union policies for mountain regions in order to deal with the disadvantages they face and thus promote their sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on mountain regions, territories with a low demographic rate, ageing, economically lacking dynamism and which require specific approaches to promote their development and cohesion with other eu regions. some of the development strategies that could help to reverse this situation are mentioned: agricultural and craft development, sustainable tourism practices, physical and digital accessibility, development of renewable energy and protection of ecosystems, policies to attract young people, improvement of health and education services, promotion of transnational and cross-border dialogue, considering that mountain regions are not necessarily confined to one member state. these are the right positions, if they are taken in the spirit of public and strategic promotion of territorial cohesion. however, the tendency to link the logic of structural reforms and macroeconomic constraints to eu cohesion policies and funds, under the guise of a stronger link between the juncker plan funds and cohesion and investment funds, the tendency to de-emphasise the member states and their role in strategic territorial management by shifting funding and policy actions to macro-regions, or the response of digitalisation as a means of promoting de-personalized and precarious labour relations, deserve our attention and our full opposition.
in writing. the geographical composition of mountain regions is a challenge for the citizens who inhabit them, due to the difficulties arising from the topology of these territories and the peripheral context in which they are situated. in addition, the treatment given in the field of economic policy and territorial cohesion does not take account of the specific nature of mountain regions, placing them under the exclusive responsibility of the member states. at the same time, and because of these structural disadvantages (see article 174 tfeu), it is necessary to devise a specific 'mountain' agenda that favours the objectives of cohesion policy, in accordance with the principles of solidarity. in this area, i believe that only concerted action by the member states can tackle the scourge of poverty and social exclusion which is currently rampant in mountain regions. also as regards the exploitation of ecosystem services, only the joint efforts of the member states will ensure the use of available resources. i therefore voted in favour of creating a specific agenda for mountain regions and of including a 'mountain' dimension in future programmes. in this respect, i particularly welcome the proposal to increase the appropriations for the esf as the instrument par excellence for unlocking the true potential of the regions.
‒ mountain regions in the european union are seldom the focus of cohesion policy. the difficulty of investment in mountain regions, often linked to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs of remoteness, means that they are often overlooked. this report shows that the link between mountain regions and the surrounding areas is crucial. it also aims to show how the eu's mountain regions can contribute to its objectives (such as those of europe 2020). natural resources in mountain areas can be used to create jobs and thus reduce unemployment in the eu, especially in the area of green jobs, helping to combat climate change. the variety and abundance of renewable energy sources can contribute to the eu's renewable energy targets. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion in the less developed mountain regions of the eu can be reduced with the help of eu funds. a concrete proposal is needed at the level of the european funds strategy for these regions (a smart, sustainable and inclusive strategy).
‒ the mountain regions of the european union (eu) are rarely the focus of cohesion policy, and issues and challenges related to them are left to the member states. the difficulty of investing in the mountains, due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs dictated by their relative extreme remoteness, usually leads to neglect of their needs. this report focuses on how mountain regions can contribute to the achievement of eu objectives, such as the europe 2020 strategy. the endogenous potential of these regions, especially that linked to their natural resources, can generate sustainable and quality jobs. the enormous diversity and abundance of renewable energy sources can also contribute to the achievement of the eu's renewable energy objectives. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion in these regions can be reduced through the use of cohesion policy. the development of many of these regions' endogenous resources can result in an improvement in social, economic and territorial cohesion, stimulating sustainable economic development. i also believe that a coordinated approach is needed to include mountain regions and to ensure that the financial allocations granted by the eu have an appropriate strategic orientation towards sustainable and inclusive growth, which are further reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ unfortunately, the eu's mountain regions are rarely the focus of cohesion policy. while the territorial dimension is a matter of debate, mountains themselves are marginalised and issues and challenges related to them are left to the member states. the difficulty of investing in the mountains, due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs of being in the outermost regions, leads to their neglect. we accompany this report on how eu mountains can contribute to sustainable development. the wealth of natural assets and resources in mountain regions can generate jobs and improve the employment situation in the eu, especially in green jobs, which contribute to combating climate change. however, this requires public development policies clearly geared to the establishment of endogenous enterprises which can counteract the spontaneous logic of the market which tends to concentrate economic activity in the cities, promoting the desertification of large parts of the territory.
‒ i voted in favour of the iotova report because i believe that the proposed approach will give greater prominence to the role of these regions in cohesion policy. i would stress that, despite the contribution they can make to european objectives, particularly in relation to strategy 2020, mountain regions have not been an integral part of cohesion policy so far. recalls that, given their structural disadvantages and their ultra-peripheral nature, it is essential to provide additional support to mountain regions with regard to their economic development, the prevention and management of natural disasters and environmental protection, and to contribute to the achievement of the eu's renewable energy targets. i would stress in this respect that mountain regions have the potential to offer numerous opportunities for achieving the eu's objectives of green jobs and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources. finally, i would like to highlight the proposal in this report to urge the european union to develop a specific policy for these regions through an 'eu mountain agenda', which will form the basis of a european strategy with the aim of ensuring the long-term development of mountain regions and the areas that depend on them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the world is facing so many humanitarian tragedies, not only the refugee tragedy but more than 125 million people in need of assistance, what should be under construction today is a major mobilization of will and resources to make the next humanitarian summit in istanbul a concrete response by the international community to the circumstances. unfortunately, the preparatory work guarantees anything but that, which is why we need a responsible and leadership attitude from the european union at this summit and leadership has to be based on exemplary commitments. we know that you are committed, commissioner, and we expect you to defend a clear road map for the strengthening of humanitarian aid, which implies a substantial widening of the humanitarian funding base. there is no other way to honour the value of the dignity of the human person.
madam president, although the european union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid, it presents itself at this world summit, ironically organized in turkey, with a disgraceful image for the way it has failed to respond to the greatest humanitarian crisis since the second world war, which is the result of war and terrorism in its neighbourhood - in syria, iraq, libya - and oppression and poverty in other countries in asia and africa. the eu-turkey deal, in violation of the un refugee convention and therefore in violation of the european treaties and the most basic humanitarian principles, is shameful. today, at his expense, in europe and in hotspots in greece, there are refugees detained and attacked, including women and children and many unaccompanied minors. and in indomeni, a true sin city, what is happening is intolerable. the european union's action at the summit will be another exercise in hypocrisy if it continues with austerity policies that project unemployment and poverty throughout the mediterranean region and beyond, and if it remains blocked, unable to act to resolve conflicts, to prevent conflicts and to help other peoples to end autocratic and oppressive regimes.
madam president, commissioner, the association agreement between the european union and mercosur has political significance which goes far beyond its economic and commercial benefits. europe needs new allies to counter the risk of losing its geopolitical and geo-economic relevance. at this stage, mercosur is still favouring negotiations with europe, but this situation may not last much longer and if we return to a deadlock, we risk losing the opportunity to other powers such as the united states and china. we must therefore ask whether it is beneficial for the future of europe that these two powers should control trade in latin america, a region where peace and democracy have been consolidated, unlike other regions of the world. so we have a choice to make. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the world. the indecision and fears of some europeans on this matter could lead to a weakening of trade and cooperation in the atlantic, which is historically our area of influence. that would be a very serious mistake.
madam president, commissioner, in the unregulated globalisation we are living in today, what gives strength to the european matrix, to our identity, to our concern for the planet are factors that are detrimental to us in terms of competitiveness. but the way forward is not to retreat into good practice, the way forward is to spread good practice through a fundamental instrument which is trade agreements. trade agreements are more important today than they were in the past, they require a geopolitical and geostrategic approach. the european union's predominance or irrelevance in the new global business cycle is at stake. tomorrow, with the exchange of proposals, a new window of opportunity opens. the negotiating process cannot be determined by geostrategic issues alone, nor can it be limited by local and regional interests. so i ask you: is the commission prepared for an intelligent and holistic negotiation? what signal is the commission sending to the world with its attitude to the mercosur negotiations? weakness and fear, or, on the contrary, determination and ambition?
madam president, madam commissioner, closer relations between the european union and mercosur are undoubtedly an imperative for both regions. we can't be on the sidelines with this deal and your negotiations. the european union, as has already been said, is the main trading partner of mercosur, accounting for about 20% of total trade and reaching a value of eur 110 billion in recent years. on the european side, the forecasts point to positive economic impacts and benefits in terms of productivity and employment as well. however, we must ensure that this agreement does not call into question agricultural standards, particularly for certain essential goods such as bananas from madeira, dairy products from the azores or portuguese meat. we need measures to ensure the sustainability of our agriculture and its future development. commissioner, this agreement could have important geostrategic implications for europe. portugal and the azores and madeira archipelagos in the middle of the atlantic can play a key role in the economic and social development of europe. let us therefore move forward without fear and we are here to support you in this agreement which will bring important benefits to europe.
madam president, europe is facing a structural crisis which stems from its commitment to a productivist agricultural model. the european commission remains convinced that the salvation of our european agriculture lies in its opening up to the world market. in this context, it now intends to reopen a dossier which had been virtually paralysed since 1999, it intends to open the process even further by negotiating tariff exemptions with mercosur's partners, in effect creating another free trade agreement with this latin american bloc. the terms of this negotiation include the possibility of exempting a wide range of agricultural goods, even the most sensitive ones, such as red meat, white meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables. it should be made clear that argentina is the largest producer of beef and veal. the european commission cannot deny the current crisis. this flight forward is unquestionable and shows a complete disregard for the importance of european farmers and their role in preserving the countryside, biodiversity and food security.
madam president, madam commissioner, 2015 was certainly a very important year in defining the sustainable development agenda, but in 2016 and beyond, in the course of implementation, it is the credibility of the commitments made that will be at stake. the european union and the member states have a dual responsibility: first, to meet the commitment to achieve 0.7% of gross national income in development aid and, second, to develop concrete plans for the implementation of the 2030 agenda with quantitative targets, timelines and adequate monitoring. and i ask the commissioner what coordination efforts are under way between the commission and the member states to implement the sustainable development goals and what more can we do to ensure proper monitoring, the involvement of this european parliament, because this is the moment of truth, the moment when it is decided whether or not we are living up to the political commitments that have been made.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam mogherini, i would first of all like to thank you sincerely for your efforts to find a political solution to the situation in syria. it's not really about numbers, it's about people and lives. and accountability is not just about accountability for the money that is invested in countries like lebanon or jordan: the european union must also be held accountable for its political choices, because not all the money in the world can help to clean up our consciences. we obviously have to support lebanon, syria and jordan, both in the political process in syria and in the refugee issue in lebanon and jordan, because these are countries that give shelter and hope, as i said, well, to millions of people. but that's not enough. we cannot think that by outsourcing the process we solve the problem by putting refugees in border countries. we need political solutions too and a response that is not an embarrassment to the european union. i think that in this respect the agreement with turkey is part of the problem and not the solution. it is a shame indeed: we are talking about poorer countries and the european union has an obligation to do much more in the reception of these refugees and in a political response to the underlying problem of the conflict.
mr president, mrs mogherini, venezuela is experiencing a truly tragic situation from the political, economic and social point of view. it is true that changes in the international economy, in particular the fall in the price of oil and some natural tragedies, some natural disasters, have contributed a little to this. but we cannot help but note that all this is the result of the failure of a certain model of political organization and a certain model of economic and social development. in fact, venezuela is faced with the failure of the options that have been made over the past few years. and here, of course, we must clearly state what has happened there in terms of disregard for fundamental freedoms and the violation of the democratic rule of law. it is not enough to hold elections to guarantee the prevalence of a democratic rule of law, as we know. democracy is not about that. now, here we are, and the truth is that there is a conflict between two powers today: a presidential power and a legislative power. and while there cannot be an absolute balance in terms of allocation of responsibilities - and it would be wrong in my view to do so - the truth is that the call for dialogue that has already been made here, and which was in some ways reflected in the intervention that mrs mogherini made at the opening, seems to me a sensible call. there will be no solution given the state of polarization that has been reached in venezuelan society , there will be no peaceful solution if there is no investment in this same dialogue and, from this perspective, this appeal makes perfect sense.
mr president, the most reactionary and easy-going forces are using lies and the worst mechanisms to disrupt latin america, reminding us of chile and pinochet - unacceptable and criminal practices of interference, which we reject. us imperialism, european neo-colonialist stigma and monopoly oligarchs do not forgive the venezuelan people, who for 18 years have affirmed their will to break with a past of exploitation, impoverishment and neoliberal policies. the desire to build a future based on economic development that gives priority to the people and not to the interests of foreign capital, a future based on social policies that are now unquestionable, public control of strategic sectors, free access to health and education, the fight against poverty and the promotion of workers' and wage rights: arguments that hurt the ears of those who advocate policies of austerity, impoverishment and neo-colonial exploitation of third countries. let those who are already rubbing their hands make no mistake: the sovereign will of the peoples and the struggle for just ideals will be victorious. that's how it will be in venezuela.
mr president, in a country that is one of the world's largest oil producers, many essential services are shut down due to a lack of power. this paradox shows how strong a relationship there is between democracy, respect for civil and political rights and economic and social sustainability. venezuela has been the victim of a clear disregard for democratic legitimacy. and this virus, as has happened in other parts of the latin american continent and the world, has contaminated the economy and society and caused scarcity and suffering to the venezuelan people. we must therefore reiterate our call for the elected authorities in venezuela to engage in dialogue, to respect each other and to put the best interests of their people first in their actions. i commend you, mrs mogherini, for your efforts in this direction. we must restore political legitimacy to venezuela, because that is the way to prevent social explosion and political and economic implosion.
madam high representative, after the elections of 6 december last, in which i was present as an unofficial observer, we all hoped that venezuela would be able to take its place again in the ranks of democratic nations. unfortunately, reality has taken care of killing that hope. the venezuelans are now living in an unbearable situation from the political, social and economic point of view. from the humanitarian crisis in the food sector, the health crisis and the energy crisis, there are also grim levels of crime and multiple human rights abuses, with the arbitrary detention of political prisoners, many of them in inhumane conditions. madam high representative, at this crucial moment in its history, when we are witnessing the start of the revocation process and at the very moment when the national assembly is discussing the breakdown of the constitutional order that has occurred in the country, venezuela needs the firm support of the european union. the demand for freedom, democracy and respect for human rights in venezuela is not interference in its internal affairs, as the extreme radical left in this parliament understands. it is our duty as democrats. thank you very much, mrs. mogherini, for your efforts on behalf of the venezuelan people.
mr president, the political, social and economic situation in venezuela should concern us all, not only as citizens but above all as european politicians. and in fact, madam high representative, in venezuela we live in a real powder keg, which a little more fuse will blow up. a member of the portuguese community from venezuela even said, two weeks ago in lisbon, and i quote, 'that the situation is unsustainable and our greatest fear at the moment is that we are heading for civil war. the situation is serious. in addition to the heavy rationing of basic products, public servants will also work only two days a week, as the government has decided to ration the supply of energy, a measure that today has been extended until at least the next 27th. also concerned about this very serious situation, pope francis wrote to nicolás maduro last week. the time has therefore come for the european union to act to ensure the protection of the large expatriate community of european citizens living and working in venezuela, which includes nearly 200 000 registered portuguese. in closing, madam high representative, i ask that you do everything in your power to restore confidence in this country.
mr president, venezuela is currently experiencing serious economic and social difficulties. along with the venezuelan population, european immigrants, many of them portuguese and madeiran, are experiencing the same difficulties. more than a year ago, nicolás maduro adopted severe measures that led to food shortages in supermarkets. recently, it decided to cut the electricity supply by four hours a day and, as an extraordinary fact, to allow public servants to work only on mondays and tuesdays, with the argument of saving electricity and water. in addition to disrespecting the human condition, venezuela disrespects democracy. venezuela disrespects foreign direct investment and calls into question trade, free trade. we are also calling into question the trade agreement between the european union and mercosur. we cannot remain indifferent, mrs mogherini, we must not remain indifferent. it's a country with which we have enormous affinities. we are linked to venezuela by blood and deep friendship. let us not give up. europe must act quickly to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, venezuela's collapse is imminent, accelerated by falling oil prices and by "corruption" escalating at all levels. essential goods such as food and medicine, medical care and even energy for public servants to work are lacking. from the richest country in latin america, venezuela is on its way to becoming the poorest, with inflation at 600% and three-quarters of the population living below the poverty line, subject to violence and total insecurity. the european union and this parliament, and even more so the many venezuelans who are binational, cannot but condemn the sectarian, populist and delusional behaviour of president maduro, who does not govern, misrules venezuela. mrs. mogherini, let's not waste any more time. it is important that you send the message to the president and the government of venezuela that if they have any sense at all, they must immediately stop the persecution and censorship of the media, human rights defenders and opponents of the regime and start working on a patriotic understanding with parliament to save the country and the people from catastrophe.
mr president, last month i was in the west bank, jerusalem and hebron. i was alarmed by the explosive atmosphere and the desperation of the palestinian people, who do not believe in the peace process, in its leadership, in the two-state solution - which everyone considers to be impossible in the face of the policy of settlements, forced displacement, demolitions, military repression and humiliation, cruelly and stupidly pursued by israel - not to mention gaza, an open-air prison. nothing better to promote the radicalisation of palestinian youth and children. in the bedouin community of al hadidiya in the jordan valley and elsewhere, i have seen projects funded by the european union systematically destroyed by israel. how do you assess, mrs mogherini, the outcome of the eu-israel structured dialogue, which should freeze demolitions when they have increased? have you asked israel for compensation for the damage caused to european taxpayers by the demolitions and confiscation of structures financed by the european union? will you make public the cost of this destruction? we will pay dearly, for our own security, for these and other costs of the european union not acting and letting the peace process die.
madam president, i welcome the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, and the shadow rapporteurs who worked with him on this regulation, which was achieved after more than two years of negotiations, by the member states resisting the 'lisbonisation' of police cooperation, i.e. further integration through europol. it is important that the changes are not just on paper but actually represent a change in mindsets and practices. as the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels tragically exposed, one of our greatest challenges is the lack of coordination between police and security agencies at national and european levels, which is taking advantage of increasingly transnational organised crime, including terrorism. this regulation provides for the strengthening of democratic control by the european parliament in association with the national parliaments. it is therefore our responsibility to require our governments to share information through europol and to cooperate with europol. there can be no greater consideration than the safety of our citizens and in this respect it was also important that parliament succeeded in imposing in this regulation respect for the principles of personal data protection, which is essential to facilitate also the interoperability of police databases and to strengthen the unit of reference of the internet. this regulation recognises europol as essential in the fight against terrorism and other organised crime, as illustrated recently by the dismantling, in collaboration with the portuguese police, of a russian-originated mafia network which laundered money by controlling football clubs in portugal. but this cannot absolve the states of their responsibility to do what they must do at national and european level against organised crime and terrorism in the police, judicial and legislative fields, in cooperation between intelligence services and in the articulation of internal and external security strategies and policies. if member states continue to compete in a race to the bottom in gold visa schemes or investor schemes and in the preservation of tax havens, with no other criterion than the money they bring in, then we should not be surprised to find that they are effectively thwarting the efforts of europol and our law enforcement agencies by opening doors to the importation of organised crime networks, including terrorist ones.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mr agustín díaz de mera, on his excellent work, as is customary. we stand for a united europe which protects and promotes the freedom of its citizens, and we want to build a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. we are not the kind of people who think that freedom and security are opposites. on the contrary, freedom without security is anarchy and security without freedom is dictatorship. and we know that the union does not exist without its member states - something which is particularly true when we talk about internal security. this agreement is reasonable, pragmatic and balanced. it's more of a tangible accomplishment. it's not a european fbi, but that's not possible right now. but it is a warning to the member states. it was already unacceptable on 22 march in brussels and on 13 november in paris that terrorists could benefit from the disintegration and lack of information exchange between member states. with a strengthened europol, we are doing our part at european level. now more is expected of the member states: more cooperation, more information sharing and more use of the instruments at their disposal. mutual trust is not created by decree, but we are creating the conditions for it to exist and for it to be strengthened. (the president accepted a question on the 'blue card' (submitted pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much for asking. i may share your opinion. what i think is that at this point, a european fbi is not possible. and why is that not possible? because what we are trying to create is mutual trust between member states. what we have seen in this whole process with the lack of information sharing is that the member states do not trust each other. it is not possible at this stage - let us be clear, let us be pragmatic, let us be reasonable - to go further than what is possible with this excellent agreement negotiated by mr díaz de mera.
madam president, europol is an agency of the european union which is part of the federalist deepening of the process of european integration, with the main objective of enforcing the law. this deepening, which also seeks to be justified in the name of the fight against terrorism, broadens the scope, in particular, to crimes that attack the interest of the union's policies, opening up space for an interventionist stance in any area and sector, in particular in restricting the freedoms of civic and political intervention. an infrastructure which, on the fringes of the member states, imposes itself and overlaps them, in a clear attack on their sovereignty and the autonomy of their own security forces and the desirable cooperation between states. the strengthening of the financing of these policies, mechanisms and infrastructures, along with other existing or new ones, and the widening of the scope of their intervention, confirms and continues the european union's security policy, which imposes controls and restrictions on the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens, which we reject.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr agustín díaz de mera, on his excellent report and, as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, i would like to draw attention to three fundamental aspects of this renewal or revision of the europol system. the first is that we are finally bringing the europol framework into line with the lisbon treaty: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is essential that a police force itself can be, so to speak, monitored and scrutinized by the european parliament. on the other hand, there is also the set of guarantees given in the field of data protection. the fight against crime today in many cases requires the collection, coordination and exchange of data, of a great deal of information, which is sensitive, and therefore the data protection regime must be properly cautious. i would like to make a point here. many people have said that today, crime lives without borders. it is important to understand that the eu was already living without borders; the member states were the ones living with borders. so crime has long been organized networks, and it is we who must organize ourselves in networks if we are to combat this phenomenon. i believe that another very important step has been taken here towards having a police force capable of dealing with the new phenomenon of crossborder crime.
‒ the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is based on the tax on credit institutions, adapted according to the investment services they offer, and exempts traders in commodities from the requirements relating to large risks and capital requirements respectively. both exemptions expire on 31 december 2017. however, the analysis on investment firms is a complex project which will not be completed until the end of this year. therefore, the extension should take into account the time needed to complete the review on investment firms and to develop, adopt and apply any legislation that may result from that review.
‒ the regulation in question applies to credit institutions and investment firms, incorporating the legal framework governing access to activity, the supervisory framework and the prudential rules applicable to credit institutions and investment firms. the proposal aims to extend the current exemptions granted to traders in commodities from the requirements relating to large risks and capital requirements. the objectives of this regulation are to prevent and reduce systemic and macroprudential risks, to encourage economically useful banking activities serving the general interest and to discourage unsustainable financial speculation without real added value. the regulation states that 'the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets is an objective of both economic and political importance ... therefore, the capital requirements and other prudential rules to be applied to undertakings operating in these markets should be proportionate and not unduly interfere with the achievement of the objective of liberalisation. we have been very critical of this package, particularly its inadequacy and perversity - the whole content of the regulatory reform carried out by the eu has been determined by the financial capital itself. the regulation determined the lines by which the regulation was to be applied to it. we voted against it.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to extend the period of validity of the exemption of commodity traders from certain requirements laid down in the crr (capital requirements regulation). no specific implementation plans are required as the extension is directly applicable and allows the continuation of current practices. for the same reasons, there is no need to implement any specific framework for monitoring, evaluation and reporting. on the contrary, those frameworks should be implemented in the context of any changes to the prudential framework applicable to commodity traders resulting from the analysis on investment firms. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the requirements laid down in the capital requirements regulation (regulation (eu) no 575/2013) and the capital requirements directive (directive 2013/36/eu) apply to credit institutions and investment firms. the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is based on the tax on credit institutions, which is adapted to the investment services they provide. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr i agree with the rapporteur's position, pointing out two situations relating to the exemptions identified: commodity traders would be subject to all the requirements of the crr and the crd without having made a conscious decision that this treatment is in their best interests and, in the event that the analysis on investment firms results in a specific prudential framework for commodity traders, they would be deprived of a stable regulatory framework. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 36 (1) (a) of crr
in writing. articles 493 (1) and 498 (1) of the capital requirements directive exempt traders in commodities from the requirements relating to large exposures and from the own funds requirements respectively. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation granted to the beneficiaries. the expiry date provided for in the legislation would, in theory, have allowed the analysis of the appropriate regime for commodity traders to be completed, had the commission not decided to carry out a single analysis of the appropriate regime for commodity traders and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general. due to the complexity of the study project, it is estimated that the work will not be completed by the end of the year. therefore, it is unlikely that any legislative texts that may result from this analysis can be prepared, adopted and implemented before the current exemption expires. in this regard, it appears necessary to extend the current exemptions provided for in the capital requirements directive (crd). the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the measure with the internal market. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this is to extend the current exemptions under the crr (capital requirements regulation) for the time necessary to complete the analysis on investment firms and to develop, adopt and apply any legislation that may result from that analysis (no earlier than the end of 2017).
‒ the european commission has decided to carry out an analysis on the appropriate regime for commodity traders and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general. however, the analysis on investment firms is not yet complete (it is expected to be by the end of the year). the commission notes that the exemption for the production of biodiesel is limited to the production of biodiesel from the same plant in the same area. this has consequences for commodity traders: if no specific prudential framework resulting from the review on investment firms has entered into force by that time, they will be subject to all the requirements of the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive as from 1 january 2018.
‒ the revision of the legal basis of the european police office had been under negotiation for some years. the guarantees initially requested by parliament, particularly as regards data protection, were broadly welcomed by the council, thus making it possible to approve them. after the terrible events in paris and brussels, this new regulation has become even more important. it is not just now that crime - terrorism in particular - has ceased to know borders. conversely, the police remained domestic and, as has become sadly clear over the past 18 months, did not cooperate or share enough information. mutual trust will not be established by decree, but it will certainly create better conditions for it. it is also noted that the pragmatism of the proposal has enabled the member states, on whom internal security still depends, to support and join. i am not one of those who consider the proposal perfect, but it is certainly reasonable, balanced and, above all, it allows for concrete progress in police cooperation at european level, which is why i support its adoption.
‒ the new regulation determines the structure, operation, scope and tasks of the eu police cooperation agency. the aim is to improve europol's governance and increase its effectiveness in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. europol will be able to more easily set up specialised units and centres to respond to terrorist threats and other forms of serious crime. the regulation, already agreed between the european parliament and national governments, reinforces the need for member states to provide information to europol and establishes a new framework for the processing of personal data.
‒ the joint declaration of the council and the european parliament on article 44 of this report aims to extend europol's powers to 'create a high harmonised level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union, as a way of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens', the document reads. this proposal is a further step in a direction which we have already expressed our disagreement with on several occasions, by extending the scope of europol's powers, placing them above the sovereignty of the states and their competent authorities. we voted against the objectives which we consider to be pursued by europol and which limit individual freedoms and guarantees.
‒ europol's mission is to support national police services and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism. europol facilitates the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and provides criminal analysis to assist national police forces in their transnational investigations. the proposal improves europol's governance by seeking to achieve efficiency gains, streamlining procedures, in particular with regard to the management board and the executive director, and aligning europol with the principles set out in the common approach on eu decentralised agencies. this proposal for a regulation therefore provides a legal framework for a new europol, which succeeds and replaces europol established by council decision 2009/371/jha of 6 april 2009 establishing the european police office (europol) and cepol established by council decision 2005/681/jha establishing the european police college (cepol). that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the european police office (europol) started as an intergovernmental body governed by a convention concluded between member states and became operational in 1999. by virtue of a council decision adopted in 2009, europol became an eu agency funded from the eu budget. this proposal aims to bring europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by creating the legislative framework for europol in the form of a regulation and introducing a mechanism for scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament and national parliaments, thereby reinforcing europol's democratic form, legitimacy and accountability. i support this proposal to give europol better governance, to make it more effective, to ensure a strong data protection regime for europol and, essentially, in line with the objectives of the stockholm programme, to make europol a vital body for the exchange of information between the police authorities of the member states.
‒ the joint declaration of the council and the european parliament on article 44 of this report aims to extend europol's powers to 'create a high harmonised level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union, as a way of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens', the document reads. this proposal is a further step which highlights the undemocratic nature of this structure, which is increasingly overriding the sovereignty of the states and their competent authorities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the strengthening of the financing of these policies, mechanisms and infrastructures, along with other existing or new ones, and the widening of the scope of their intervention, confirms and continues the european union's security policy, which imposes controls and restrictions on the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens, which we reject. sufficient reasons to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled.
‒ the report in question is the cornerstone of the european agency europol and, as a result, is also the tool enabling the reinforcement of coordinated action between the police forces of the various member states in the fight against and prevention of serious crime and terrorism. the purpose of this proposal is to promote greater efficiency in the activities of the agency at operational and functional levels and, at the hierarchical level, to promote conditions for democratic scrutiny by democratically elected representatives, thereby ensuring that the accountability obligations laid down by the treaty of lisbon are met. the new rules include the creation of a representative of the commission and the member states within europol's management, the creation of a joint parliamentary group consisting of meps and their national counterparts, and the appointment of an executive director of the agency. the regulation also lays down the mutual obligations of the intervening parties. as regards the efficiency of the agency's activities, the new system for processing information and data protection is noteworthy, as it ensures that data protection standards are raised, without prejudice to the sharing of information, where this is proportionate to the performance of the agency's tasks. i voted in favour.
‒ the new rules and functions of europol will enable it to provide a better response capacity to combat crime and terrorism by intensifying the exchange of information between member states. the new regulation also introduces a mechanism for monitoring europol by the parliament and national parliaments, as well as a more efficient system for data processing and protection.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation underlying this report provides a legal framework for a new europol, which will succeed and replace the former european police office (europol) and the former european police college (cepol). in 2009, europol became an eu agency with the task of providing support to the action of national law enforcement services and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism. the european police academy, on the other hand, has been an eu agency since 2005 responsible for activities related to the training of police officers, aimed at facilitating cooperation between national police forces. i believe that this merger, in addition to bringing europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty, by enhancing its transparency and accountability, will also create important synergies and efficiency gains in the fight against terrorism and in enhancing the security of european citizens, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the regulation on the functioning and tasks of the european agency for police cooperation (europol) aims to ensure that the agency is more effective in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. this regulation provides that the fight against crime and terrorism is to be carried out by intensifying the exchange of information between member states, in order to improve europol's response, and introduces new values that facilitate europol's action, making it easier to set up specialised units and centres directed at combating terrorism and other forms of serious crime. this regulation increases direct exchanges of information with private bodies and non-governmental organisations. eurojust and olaf will have access to data stored by europol, which will facilitate the exchange of data between the different agencies. the regulation also ensures the protection of the personal data of european citizens. i voted in favour because the proposal aims at greater european integration through greater cooperation between national governments and their security agents with europol. it also recognised that the agency was essential in the fight against organised crime and that it was now operating in a more transparent framework.
‒ this proposal is a further step which highlights the undemocratic nature of this structure, increasingly overriding the sovereignty of states and their competent authorities. the commission notes that the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of proportionality is not a precondition for the application of the principle of proportionality, and that the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of proportionality is not a precondition for the application of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the current multipolar world, with its diverse power centres, is also expressed in research and innovation. we are not alone in the world; we need to attract third country nationals. the two directives have therefore been recast and merged, focusing mainly, but not exclusively, on the beneficiaries of the two: students and researchers. on the one hand, it facilitates the entry of researchers, students and their families, and their stay after completion of their studies. the aim is to enable these third-country nationals to develop in europe the skills they have acquired here. the directive also facilitates intra-continental mobility. in other words, since these visas remain territorially limited, even though we live in a space without borders, the procedure for movements within the union is facilitated. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this directive.
‒ the directive provides for the possibility for students to stay for at least nine months after completion of research or studies in order to seek employment or to set up a business. the new directive also lays down the conditions for entry and residence in eu member states and the rights of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, studies, training or volunteering in the european voluntary service. the new directive also includes provisions on intra-eu mobility to facilitate the carrying out of part of the research or studies in another member state and on the right of family members to accompany researchers.
‒ this is a second reading report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, student exchange programmes, educational projects and au pairs. the report does, however, contain some positive aspects. the new provisions improve the current situation. examples are better conditions for job-search, the improvement of the mobility scheme, the creation of a job-search permit which extends the conditions of stay and the entry into the european union of family members of researchers. we support the possibility for residents of third countries to enter, reside and work in the european union, and we support that they can do so under conditions of dignity.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to improve the provisions applicable to third-country nationals who are researchers, higher education students, secondary school students, unpaid trainees and volunteers, and to apply common provisions to two new categories of third-country nationals, namely paid trainees and au pairs. its general objective is to support social, cultural and economic relations between the eu and third countries, to promote the transfer of skills and abilities and to encourage competitiveness, while at the same time providing guarantees to ensure the equal treatment of these categories of third-country nationals. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i agree with the joint position of the european parliament and the commission on the rejection of article 20 (2) (f) of this directive, by allowing member states to reject an application only on a case-by-case basis and taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality, on the basis of evidence or serious and objective grounds. it also provides that the commission shall ensure that member states apply this provision in accordance with that interpretation when transposing the directive and shall inform the european parliament and the council thereof, in the framework of their obligations under article 39. i believe, as the joint statement of the european parliament and the commission states, that the inclusion of this provision should not be a precedent for future legal migration mechanisms.
‒ this is a second reading report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, student exchange programmes, educational projects and au pairs. although timidly, this report does present comparatively better positive aspects than the current situation, such as the right of students to work 10 to 15 hours a week, the improvement of the mobility scheme, the creation of a job search permit allowing students and researchers to stay for at least 9 months and the entry into the european union of the family members of researchers. we support the possibility for residents of third countries to be able to enter, reside and work in the european union, and we support that they can do so under conditions of dignity.
‒ this recommendation sets out the position of the european parliament (ep) with a view to adopting the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of foreign nationals, students or au pairs for the purposes of research, studies and exchange. the agreement reached by the various political groups in the ep was reflected in the unanimous adoption of the proposal amending the legislation in force by introducing clear and binding criteria, in particular as regards the definition of visa procedures, (mobility) rights and procedural guarantees. in other respects, and despite the reservations and reservations raised by article 20, the ep and the council reached agreement on the grounds for rejecting an application from a third-country national where this is justified on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. an annex to this legislative resolution is attached to safeguard the application of this provision, in accordance with the interpretation of parliament and the council. in the light of the foregoing, and considering that the directive fulfils the dual objective of recognising and safeguarding the rights of paid trainees and au pairs on the one hand, and promoting the objectives of european action in the field of education on the other, i voted in favour.
‒ this directive concerns the conditions of entry and residence of foreign researchers and students in the european union. one of the objectives is to make europe more attractive in the areas of research and innovation, training or volunteering. we need to attract talent to increase competitiveness. the directive provides for the possibility of staying in the eu country which granted the authorisation for a period of at least 9 months in order to seek employment or to set up businesses. it also provides for greater mobility within the union and family support. let us remember that europe spends only a fraction of its gdp on r & d compared to the us or japan. this is also a good support for legal immigration.
in writing. this proposal for a recommendation refers to the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, studies, traineeships or voluntary service, or for the purpose of student exchange projects. this directive redefines certain aspects of the entry and residence of foreign nationals, in line with the principle of simplification concerning the movement of persons into and out of the eu, only in the situations referred to above. enabling third-country nationals to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of traineeship and/or study in europe will not only encourage 'brain drain' but also support and strengthen cooperation with the countries from which these citizens come. the proposal also aims to implement rules to ensure, for example, that the citizens concerned can remain for at least nine months after leaving the job to look for a job or develop a business, which will ensure that the eu benefits from the skills acquired by them. as i said earlier, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ as a scientist and leader of multidisciplinary and international research teams, i am very sensitive to this issue. i think that the door is now open to establishing conditions for entry and residence in the eu member states. the rights of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training or volunteering in the european voluntary service are also defined. it is also important to note that after completion of their research or studies, foreign researchers and higher education students will be able to stay in the eu country that granted them their residence permit or long-stay visa for a period of at least nine months in order to seek employment or to set up a business. i agree with the enthusiasm for this directive and hope that portugal will not need the two years provided for its transposition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ although timid, this report does present comparatively better positives than the current situation, such as the right of students to work 10 to 15 hours a week, the improvement of the mobility scheme, the creation of a job search permit allowing students and researchers to stay for at least 9 months and the entry into the european union of researchers' family members. we support the possibility for residents of third countries to be able to enter, reside and work in the european union, and we support that they can do so under conditions of dignity.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy makes a decisive contribution to bringing the eu closer to its citizens and to investment and development policies for all regions, representing, in some member states, the main source of public investment. to that end, the commission and the member states should exploit the full potential of the european structural and investment funds, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, in order to strengthen economic and social cohesion and reduce territorial disparities. i would stress the importance of timely payments to ensure the correct and effective implementation and credibility of cohesion policy. at the same time, the commission, the member states and all stakeholders should ensure better coordination of initiatives and launch an effective communication policy in order to raise public awareness of the achievements of cohesion policy and thus give it greater visibility. i therefore support this resolution.
‒ cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, is the instrument that helps bring the eu closer to its citizens and the main investment and development policy for all eu regions, and in some member states the main source of public investment. in view of the size of the budget, it is important that there be a detailed analysis of the risks of cancellation of commitments, indicating the amounts per member state, and an analysis of the payment forecasts submitted by the member states as soon as possible after the deadlines have been set.
‒ this resolution aims to promote policies that, in the 2014-2020 programming period, accelerate the implementation of the cohesion funds. the text adopted does not, however, call for measures that were necessary and insists on negative measures: considers it essential that member states comply with and enforce all policies that have led them away from cohesion: following the eu2020 strategy; involving and financing the private sector; complying with the requirements related to the internal and external implementation of the stability pact; harmonising the implementation of development funds with the strategic investment funds and the digital single market; the need to encourage the implementation of the said structural reforms and the importance of member states complying with the actions related to the so-called macroeconomic conditionality which has introduced unacceptable elements of blackmail and pressure in the implementation of the funds by the end of 2016. we are talking about adding exclusion to exclusion, adding divergence to divergence. these are logical reasons why portugal is particularly sensitive at the moment, with the threat of eu funds being suspended for breaching an artificial deficit rule. we are strongly opposed to this policy. we stand for real cohesion, based on solidarity between peoples and the sovereign definition of development strategies.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, is the instrument that helps bring the eu closer to its citizens and the main investment and development policy for all eu regions, and in some member states the main source of public investment. the 2014-2020 regulation introduced several key reforms in cohesion policy, such as thematic concentration, which, through the necessary flexibility, allowed for better adaptation to local needs, a greater focus on results, better coordination with economic and social policy, greater synergy between eu priorities and regional needs and a better coordinated use of the esi funds thanks to the common strategic framework. policy coordination is therefore necessary to maximise the funds allocated to cohesion policies. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this resolution aims to promote policies that, in the 2014-2020 programming period, accelerate the implementation of the cohesion funds. the text adopted does not, however, provide for the member states to be given more flexibility in allocating funding in this context. on the contrary, it considers it essential for the achievement of cohesion that member states implement and enforce all policies that take them away from cohesion: following the europe 2020 strategy; involving and financing the private sector; complying with the requirements related to the internal and external implementation of the stability and growth pact; harmonising the application of development funds with the strategic investment funds and the digital single market; the need to encourage the implementation of structural reforms and the importance of member states complying with actions related to ex ante conditionalities by the end of 2016. we are talking about adding exclusion to exclusion, adding divergence to divergence. these are logical reasons why portugal is particularly sensitive at the moment, with the very real threat of seeing development funds suspended for breaching an artificial deficit rule. we are strongly opposed to this policy of liberalizing cohesion. we stand for real cohesion, based on solidarity between peoples and the sovereign definition of development strategies.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission and the member states to exploit the full potential of the european structural investment funds (esif), recalling that the economic crisis has caused liquidity problems and a lack of public funds available for investment. in the context of stagnation or recession in certain economies, it is essential to increase the absorption capacity of funds and to ensure the effective application of financial instruments. only the strategic use of resources can maximize the impact of funding and mitigate the negative effects of cuts in public budgets. however, the available strategic options and the maximisation of existing resources through alternative and creative solutions are today seriously hampered by the complexity and the long-term nature of the implementation of cohesion policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion policy. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, is the main source of public investment in some member states. we all agree that the implementation of cohesion policy must be speeded up and that we must be aware of the measures being considered to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes in order to avoid the cancellation of funds.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cohesion policy, with a budget of over eur 350 million (20142020), represents the main instrument for investment and development of the regions, and is the most effective policy for promoting the territorial development of the european union (eu), by fixing populations to the regions with the lowest economic/population density and by stimulating the creation of comparative advantages for the regions. the importance of cohesion policy is undeniable and when we talk about the 'numbers' of the european structural and investment funds (esif) in the total public investment of our member states (ms), we find that in 10 ms, more than 50% of public investment between 2014-2016 was made using the esif. we therefore demand its swift and bureaucratic implementation, bearing in mind that it is not long before the other 3 of n of 2014... in the longer term, we as the european parliament should pursue three main objectives: debate the revision of the mff and strive for a common position with the widest possible support in the different parliamentary groups; start the preparatory discussions on the mff framework and the union's long-term strategy beyond 2020.
‒ cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, is the instrument that helps bring the eu closer to its citizens and the main investment and development policy for all eu regions, and in some member states the main source of public investment. two years have passed since the start of the new programming period and there are delays in the implementation of cohesion policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. this will not be without its obstacles, such as ex ante conditionality, macroeconomic conditionality and performance conditionality itself, which have complicated the processes and are the cause of many delays.
‒ i voted in favour of the mihaylova resolution on accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy, as i agree that the european commission should swiftly present measures to facilitate and accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy by the member states. i regret that, given its importance, the process of implementing cohesion policy does not merit particular attention from the eu. the delays in its implementation and the difficulty in combining it with other tools to support development, growth, employment and investment represent missed opportunities at a time when the eu is facing difficulties that require the mobilisation of all available resources. i would stress that, having been designed to combat asymmetries and close the gap in access to opportunities for european citizens, the volume of resources it mobilises (more than eur 350 billion by 2020) makes cohesion policy a key tool for reversing the cycle of stagnation into which the eu was plunged after the financial crisis that began in 2008.
mr president, the commission and the council want to make it seem that we are on the road to the restoration of schengen, that we are making significant progress, just look at the situation in greece, where there are shamefully thousands of refugees blocked, arrested and threatened with deportation, while at the border between hungary and slovakia police and military forces are shooting at refugees. at the same time, the commission recommends that member states such as austria, germany, denmark and sweden keep their borders closed because of threats to public order and internal security. denial of reality can be painful. but it is temporary, says the commission, legitimising member states joining together to violate schengen, led by austria but remote controlled by the german government, which, without proclaiming it, suddenly closed the open door to refugees announced by the chancellor last summer. the commission and the council bear heavy responsibility for violating schengen by not acting against prime minister orbán when he defied the union by refusing to share the relocation and started to build walls and attack refugees. the council and the commission have made matters worse with the dirty deal with erdogan, which is not only immoral and illegal but also impractical, as developments in turkey itself prove; and it is ineffective, it only diverts refugees and smuggling networks to other stops. the commission's proposal for the revision of the dublin regulation, which has long been requested by this parliament, is based on the sharing of responsibilities and solidarity between member states. the council and the commission must now take this problem as a european one. we desperately need more europe, and more europe is schengen. and we also need strategic leadership, which today, unfortunately, we don't have.
madam president, madam minister, it is good to see you representing the council, commissioner, we do not support those who want to destroy schengen. we criticise the inaction, the lack of solidarity, the backsliding of europe's achievements. internal border controls can be a pain reliever to buy us time to beat the disease. but we have to continue to solve the long-term problems while we're responding to the short-term ones. we must immediately show solidarity with greece and call on the greek government to be more determined and effective. the commission's proposal for a decision to extend internal border controls is a predictable step forward. it does not destroy schengen, but it prolongs a chaotic transitional period in which the member states have used this prerogative in a totally uncoordinated way. and while some, like germany, have tried to take in asylum seekers better, others have done so only to fuel populist rhetoric. the commission proposal will at least mitigate this problem. but this decision should not serve to justify the irrationalities and national selfishness we have seen. the proposal for a decision is the result of an assessment of the external borders of greece, the deficiencies of which have not yet been corrected. greece alone will never be able to do this. as the commission acknowledges. on the other hand, if it is true that there are problems in border management, it is agreed that the real source of the problem is in the area of asylum, which is not part of the schengen evaluations!
in writing. the full functioning of the schengen area is something i believe is fundamental to the european project and i regret its partial suspension as it is one of the most negative consequences of the refugee crisis we are facing. it is necessary to highlight the negative behaviour of some member states which violates the spirit underlying our union. there are governments in europe which promote a discourse of exclusion, ultra-nationalist and xenophobic, with very negative consequences, such as the suspension of the schengen area mentioned above. one of the pillars of the european project is the principle of free movement and, before analysing the negative economic impact of these measures, it is important to conclude that the european project is being called into question by these attitudes. i hope that the european commission will continue its efforts to draw the attention of the member states to the fact that they must remain true to the european spirit.
mr president, turkey can meet dozens of technical requirements for visa liberalisation, but it is alarmingly falling behind in political criteria, with military campaigns that massacre the kurdish population and persecution of regime critics, such as journalists dündar and gül, for denouncing the aid of turkish forces to terrorist groups, including daexe and al-nusra. president erdogan is blackmailing and mocking the european union because the council and the commission have set it up with the dirty business of outsourcing refugees in exchange for visas. and refuses to conform anti-terrorism laws with human rights and the rule of law to use them in the project of personal power, which goes on to expel the hdp party, elected by the opposition, from the parliament. in these circumstances, this parliament cannot give its consent to visa liberalization. but that is not enough: we must denounce and condemn the anti-democratic project to which erdogan wants to drag turkey.
in writing. it seems that turkey is a kind of european guantanamo: doing outside what we cannot do inside. we are getting more and more reports of violence by the turkish authorities against asylum seekers. the council felt that solidarity which had not worked between member states would work with turkey. many are still unwilling to take in asylum seekers from greece or turkey. today we are faced with the counterparts of this agreement. parliament has a decisive say here: there will be no visa exemption if all the requirements are not met, as for any other third country. but that is not the essential problem. turkey is, and always has been, a strategic partner for the european union. but this quality should not give it exceptional status. this agreement may even reduce the number of people arriving at our borders, but it remains an agreement contrary to our values. those who think we are hostages of turkey today are wrong. we are hostages to our own confusion today, but there is always a good alternative: acting together, tackling this problem with its european dimension.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here today to continue our debate on tax transparency, which will occupy us throughout this mandate. i promised you that the transparency revolution was underway. a new stage has been reached today, thanks to parliament, whose action i welcome. you know that the commission has been particularly active in recent months on the transparency front. last december, an agreement was reached in record time on the automatic exchange of information on tax returns between tax authorities in the union. since january, the commission and i have been pushing this revolution forward by putting two major proposals on the table: a directive on the publication of country-by-country reports on the activities of multinational companies, the country-by-country report between the tax authorities of the member states of the union. that is what we have to discuss tonight. finally, there is a proposal to amend the accounting directive to make this type of report public, and you know that this has been my firm position from the beginning. we are determined to push the boundaries of transparency further with the strong and consistent support of parliament in this work. our present work is therefore oriented in three directions. the immediate next step for the commission is to examine whether and to what extent the transparency requirements of the anti-money laundering directive could also be used to combat tax fraud. the commission will be presenting a proposal to amend this directive as early as next month. it is also considering how to shed more light on the activities of tax planning schemes - including tax advisers - used by taxpayers to evade tax. finally, we are working intensively on the drawing up of a european blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions. there is one, but it is too much the result of a compilation of national lists, which are themselves heterogeneous; this would be a precursor to an oecd list. i had the opportunity to speak on this subject last week with the oecd secretary-general, angel gurría, and our teams are working in full understanding with the oecd. that is the overall picture before we come to the subject of the debate. why is the automatic and mandatory exchange of information between member states' tax authorities so important? simply because it is a fundamental mechanism for the tax authorities to be able to detect harmful tax practices quickly and react to them promptly. clearly, this mechanism, as you have explained, will allow for better tax control and ensure more virtuous practices on the part of multinationals. a word, first, to explain how this proposal articulates with our international work. as you know, this is a proposal to transpose action 13 of the oecd beps action plan into european union law. this has already been agreed at oecd level and endorsed by the g20 in november 2015 in antalya. the commission's intention is therefore not to create a new european union standard but simply to implement the oecd recommendations fully. we must at all costs maintain the course agreed, avoid creating loopholes which could be exploited by the multinationals. the benefits of an initiative at european level are extremely clear to me. this will ensure a coherent, effective and comprehensive approach by the european union and will allow country-by-country information to be published in the internal market. the initiative also provides greater legal certainty for tax authorities and businesses and will contribute to the development of an international standard for the automatic exchange of country-by-country disclosure. i now come to the heart of the proposal itself. on the substance, the proposal requires large multinationals to declare to the tax authorities the tax they pay in each jurisdiction in which they operate and other relevant tax information. as regards its scope, all multinationals resident for tax purposes in the european union or outside but active in the internal market will have to comply with the new rules. as regards the timetable, the directive will enter into force in 2017. the first exchanges of information will therefore cover accounting periods beginning on or after 1 january 2016. i turn to the rapporteur, mr rosati - in fact i have been turning to him repeatedly - to thank him very warmly for his report, and of course i thank all those who contributed to it. i know that parliament would like to go further on several points. i would therefore like to take up some of the points of your work and some of the progress that has been made. first, it is planned to make the information available to the public by country. this is progress, as you know, which i have been very keen on and supporting since i took up my post in the commission. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has adopted the proposal amending the accounting directive which provides for the disclosure of the activities of multinational companies, the publication of country-by-country information, and in this initiative the commission is working to respond to the urgent demand of citizens and the european parliament for more transparency, with a concern that most of you share, which is to preserve the competitiveness of european companies. so from now on it is a proposal in the hands of the co-legislators. we have taken the first step, it was not an easy decision to make but we have taken it, and we hope that now we will be followed. as regards the role of the commission, it may be desirable that country-by-country information reports should also be shared with the commission. the commission is not a tax authority, having no competence in administering the application of the national tax laws of the member states, and therefore cannot receive or have access to the content of the publication of country-by-country information, which is expressly intended for national tax administrations. the information exchanged should be used mainly by tax administrations to assess risks in the area of transfer pricing and to better target tax controls, areas in which the commission is not competent. the member states and the oecd also consider that sharing the publication of country-by-country information with the commission would not be in line with the confidentiality clause of the oecd agreement. so i would like to agree with you, but you can see that the room for manoeuvre is very small. another point is the content of the reports. some amendments provide for additional information. again, this would not be compatible with the primary objective of this initiative to implement and transpose beps within the union. to depart from this would be to create a new eu standard and thus a new layer of reporting requirements, thus increasing the administrative burden for multinational enterprises. we want to be honest, we want to identify fraudsters, we want to fight tax evasion, we want to limit the erosion of the tax base, we do not want to burden companies. finally, it was proposed that the commission should draw up annual reports to the council and the european parliament assessing the effectiveness of the automatic exchange of information between member states. but the directive on administrative cooperation already exists. member states shall communicate to the commission all information necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of such cooperation and an annual evaluation of the effectiveness including the practical results obtained. in addition, the commission is also to report on the application of the automatic exchange of information by 1 october 2018 and to report on the implementation of the administrative cooperation directive to parliament and the council every five years. we believe that these provisions are sufficient, that they are proportionate and, indeed, that they already meet the legitimate concern you have expressed and which i fully share. in any event, rest assured that the commission will closely monitor the implementation and impact of the directive and will propose, if necessary, relevant amendments. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, greater transparency, a stronger fight against fraud and tax evasion are the objectives which are at the top of our political priorities and which are very clearly at the very heart of my mandate in the commission. we have already made remarkable progress with a tight and ambitious timetable. we are helped, it must be said, by a public outcry at the successive revelations: those of last year, those of the panama papers, more recently. we must, of course, build on this revolt to move things forward decisively. i believe that your parliament and the commission are really working in the same spirit and hand in hand. i often come to this house to present the proposals we are drawing up which are the very concrete expression of this commitment. i have an ambition, and i know you share it, that the european union should be the leader and the driving force in the global fight for tax transparency. at the beginning of my speech i said that i would come to you to talk about these issues throughout this mandate. yes, it is certain, our work is far from finished. there are still key proposals to be discussed such as the anti-tax avoidance directive, the anti-tax avoidance package which is on the council table - i hope there will be an agreement on this in a few days' time at the ecofin council - and the proposal on country-by-country public reporting. i have heard complaints before. i think we also have to be aware that by doing so we will really be the first in the world to make such a proposal. it is essential that we continue to work together. i am happy to do so here in the house. i am doing so in the relevant committees, before the taxe committee, before the econ committee, because i know once again that without cooperation between the commission and the european parliament, but also without the conviction of the member states, these proposals would remain an empty shell. that is not my intention, nor yours. i am convinced that together we will really advance this cause that we share and that mr rosati's report illustrates quite clearly and accurately.
the commission's timid proposal falls far short of what is necessary and what the citizens expect. the launch of the various tax packages and action plans, announced under the pressure of the various scandals, has raised legitimate hopes among the people. however, as we see all these plans come to fruition, it is absolutely clear that ambitions have been revised downwards. what we see is the adoption of minimalist measures and far short of what is needed. it is ironic that this negotiation is taking place under the dutch presidency of the european union, with the netherlands being one of the most important tax havens in existence, as the starbucks scandals and others have shown. what the european commission is proposing is to follow the oecd rules by proposing a confidential country-by-country report in which multinational companies will provide tax administrations with information on their activities and on taxes. as is recognised, the confidentiality of this information deprives the measure of all its effectiveness and, in particular, of its deterrent effect. we therefore call on the commission to make the disclosure of this information compulsory, as is the case with banks. we do not understand the limit of eur 750 million, which exempts the vast majority of multinational companies from this measure. in short, we demand that the european union be consistent and take consistent action in the fight against this social inequality, which is inseparable from the capitalist system, which promotes the concentration of wealth and social inequalities.
mr president, commissioner, our conception of revolution is at least a little bit different. i think this debate is a good example of the state we've reached. we are discussing here today a matter as basic as the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. how did we get here? it was surely not by divine will or by natural disaster: it's because of unfair legislation, because many of these practices are legal, but they're absolutely unfair. the multinationals are allowed to do anything; the workers and small and mediumsized enterprises are given all the obligations. the tax evasion of multinationals is, in fact, compensated by massive doses of austerity on those who comply. i do not understand why so many multinationals are left out of this proposal. we are in danger of adding layers of injustice rather than fighting tax injustice. transparency is essential, but even more so is the issue of tax havens, tax evasion and money laundering. these are urgent measures. our citizens can't take any more cosmetics.
in writing. we are facing an attempt to respond to what has become known as the luxleaks scandal, which directly involved the current president of the european commission when he was still minister of finance and later prime minister of luxembourg. the discovery that not only this but also several other eu governments have concluded secret agreements with multinational companies to save them from paying taxes, opening the door to tax evasion and depriving the states of the very valuable revenues that would result from the proper collection of taxes, has generated just and understandable indignation throughout europe. for those in charge of the eu, it was necessary to ensure that something changed in appearance so that everything remained the same. it is ironic that this negotiation is taking place under the dutch presidency of the eu, with the netherlands being one of the most important tax havens in existence, as the starbucks scandals and others have shown. the european commission is proposing a confidential country-by-country report in which multinationals will provide tax authorities with information on their activities and taxes. confidentiality compromises the effectiveness of the measure and its deterrent effect. moreover, the eur 750 million ceiling excludes the vast majority of multinational companies.
mr president, many european producers in the milk and pigmeat sectors are selling their products below the production price, which is unacceptable. we must take further action. the indication of origin for dairy products and pigmeat should be mandatory for the protection of european producers, but also because it seems to me obvious that it is synonymous with quality and food safety. we must avoid double interpretations for consumers, as is often the case in portugal, where we see products with national designations on sale which are produced or packaged in other countries, or even where there is dishonest use of certain brands of dairy products, by indicating on the label that they contain milk from the azores, for example, creating added value for that product, when in reality it is non-existent or represents less than 1% of the product. it is important that european products are not confused with low-quality products from third countries, which arrive at prices with which it is impossible to compete, given the lower standards to which they are subject. but above all, it is our responsibility to give europeans the opportunity to help their producers, european farmers, at a time when we are going through a huge crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. the hydropower sector is crucial to maintaining and enhancing the relative energy independence of the european union. this is a type of energy that doesn't use fossil fuels and is based on a renewable resource: the water cycle. in acknowledging these and other advantages, i must also point out that it is not a panacea and there are significant environmental impacts. for example, the dramatic alteration of watersheds covers vast areas, which has heritage implications for the culture of the settlements there and for the existence of species and their habitats. in portugal, there have been major struggles for cultural heritage, which ultimately led to altered building plans or incalculable losses. more recently, it has been pointed out that this sector hinders or even prevents the migration of fish and invertebrates, causing their populations to decline and affecting some activities, such as river fishing, whether professional or recreational. rather than give advice that will be useful in any case, i want to draw attention to the problem and stress the importance of comprehensive, serious and consequential environmental impact studies. only then can we build a better europe!
the decline in birth rates is inseparable from the increasing deterioration in the living and working conditions of workers. it is a direct result of the neoliberal and austerity policies that this european union imposes and which have fostered unemployment, wage cuts and devaluation, precarious employment ties, the violation of the rights of motherhood and fatherhood and the destruction of public childcare services and facilities. policies responsible for the increase in inequalities and poverty, which today affects 25% of the population of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to all types of work, including work on the basis of a contract of employment. it is in this europe of supposed values that discrimination against women persists and is aggravated. the fight against these is unmistakably to guarantee the right to work with rights and the right to be a mother without penalties and without discrimination of any kind. the right to parental leave must be guaranteed to all, regardless of the employment relationship of working parents, and the enjoyment of parental leave must be a free decision of the woman and the couple. we reaffirm the imperative to guarantee the six-week period of compulsory maternity leave proposed here in 2010, a period which should be extended to nine weeks. we support extending maternity leave from four to six months, guaranteeing the granting of parental leave allowances paid at 100% of reference pay, and the creation of a specific maternity leave for prematurity.
‒ the objective of this revision is to enhance transparency on taxes paid by companies by making the automatic exchange of information on multinational country reports between national tax authorities mandatory. multinational groups of companies based or operating in the eu with total consolidated revenues of eur 750 million or more will be required to submit a country-by-country report which should include information on the amount of revenues, profits before income tax, tax on income paid and deferred, number of employees, declared capital, retained earnings and tangible assets.
‒ we are facing an attempt to respond to what has become known as the luxleaks scandal, which directly involved the current president of the european commission when he was still minister of finance and later prime minister of luxembourg. the discovery that not only this but also several other eu governments have concluded secret agreements with multinational companies to save them from paying taxes, opening the door to tax evasion and depriving the states of the very valuable revenues that would result from the proper collection of taxes, has generated just and understandable indignation throughout europe. for those in charge of the eu, it was necessary to ensure that something changed in appearance so that everything remained the same.
‒ the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is a major step forward in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. however, i cannot help expressing my dissatisfaction with the lack of ambition of this proposal, in which only large multinationals such as google, apple and ikea will be covered by the obligation to exchange information, since it is multinationals like these that generate revenues of eur 750 million or more. in this sense, all other large companies, including portuguese companies, will be left out, which will be able to continue to take advantage of tax evasion maneuvers to escape their tax obligations, burdening the ordinary citizen and smes with the payment of taxes. i voted in favour, but i hope that this is only a first step and that it will soon be possible to bring forward more comprehensive and effective legislation on this matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal amending the directive on the automatic exchange of compulsory information in the field of taxation. the amendment takes a further step in the fight against tax evasion and in the enhancement of transparency in the tax paid by companies by making automatic exchange of information on multinational companies' country reports between national tax authorities mandatory.
in writing. ‒ this draft directive amends directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, as last amended by directive (eu) 2015/2376. this draft directive introduces a new article in the existing directive, which establishes the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the country-by-country report. i believe that this proposal is already an important step in the fight against crossborder tax evasion, which has been increasing and has become a major cause for concern in the union and worldwide. it is important to note that, following the reports of the econ and taxe committees, the european parliament called for greater transparency of tax information in order to combat aggressive tax planning, in particular by introducing country reports for multinational groups of companies. i agree with the rapporteur that this proposal would improve efficiency with the proposed amendments, which extend the exchange of information to the european commission and ask that on the basis of this information the commission assess the compliance of member states with the european union state aid rules.
in writing. ‒ we are facing an attempt to respond to what has become known as the luxleaks scandal, which directly involved the current president of the european commission when he was still finance minister and later prime minister of luxembourg. the discovery that not only this but also several other eu governments have concluded secret agreements with multinational companies to save them from paying taxes, opening the door to tax evasion and depriving the states of the very valuable revenues that would result from the proper collection of taxes, has generated just and understandable indignation throughout europe.
‒ this proposal makes it mandatory to exchange information between member states' tax authorities in order to identify aggressive tax planning practices by large companies and ensure fair tax competition. companies with revenues of 750 million or more are required to report by country (including the amount of revenues, profit before tax, number of employees, declared capital, retained earnings, etc.). the 750 million ceiling covers only 105 of the multinationals. the s&ds were in favour of reducing this amount to 40 million, allowing some 20 000 firms to be audited. the s&d group has tried to get an amendment to this effect through the plenary, but has not succeeded in getting it passed. however, this is a good principle for tax transparency and fairness.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in the current legal framework of directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, member states do not yet share country-by-country reports, and therefore in the current cross-border tax avoidance environment, it is essential to promote transparency and to strengthen the tools and mechanisms established by the directive. i am in favour of the commission's proposal which sets out the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the country-by-country report and i agree with the more specific details of the reporting obligation for multinational companies, given the volume of revenue in trade transactions. in the interests of greater transparency and a more effective fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ as we see the implementation of all these fiscal packages, it is clear that ambitions have been revised downwards, with minimalist measures and far below what is needed. it is ironic that this negotiation is taking place under the dutch presidency of the eu, with the netherlands being one of the most important tax havens in existence, as the starbucks scandals and others have shown. what the european commission is proposing is to follow the oecd rules by proposing a confidential country-by-country report in which multinational companies will provide tax administrations with information about their activities and their taxes. as is recognised, the confidentiality of this information deprives the measure of all its effectiveness and in particular of its deterrent effect. we therefore call on the commission to make the disclosure of this information compulsory, as is the case with banks. we do not understand the limit of eur 750 million, which exempts the vast majority of multinational companies from this measure. in short, we demand that the european union be consistent and take consistent action in the fight against this social inequality, which is inseparable from the capitalist system that promotes the concentration of wealth and social inequalities.
‒ consumers have the right to information communicated in an understandable way, including coastal and geographical information on catch areas, and should be able to have full confidence in the entire supply chain of fishery products to the eu market. however, the results of several studies indicate significant levels of mislabelling of fish products sold on the eu market, which is a violation of eu regulations. member states should therefore strengthen national controls, in particular of unprocessed fish destined for restaurants and the catering sector, in an effort to combat fraud and identify the stage in the supply chain where fish is incorrectly labelled.
in writing. ‒ recent cases of fish not corresponding to the labelling (the fish version of selling cat for rabbit) identified in various restaurants, hotel and commercial establishments justify the development of measures that promote not only a correct identification of the species concerned, but also their origin and processing conditions. in the name of product quality, of improving the conditions of fishermen and producers of fishery products, but also of consumer confidence, we support this measure. certifying the origin and quality of products is a demand of portuguese producers and fishermen, as a means of affirming national products and protecting against adulteration and a kind of commercial dumping. this certification should be carried out by a public body, free of charge, thus avoiding the obligation for producers to pay for this certification to private bodies, which are often not very discriminating. the example of the canning industry deserves special mention. we have asked the european commission on this subject on several occasions. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail. consumers have the right to comprehensible and non-fraudulent information in compliance with community regulations and standards, so incorrect, fraudulent and intentional labelling of fish species will constitute a breach of eu rules, in particular the common fisheries policy.
‒ the eu is the world's largest market for fishery products, which is supplied both by the eu fisheries sector and by imports from third countries. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because there are still significant levels of mislabelling of fishery products sold on the eu market. it should also be underlined that this problem needs to be addressed also in the iberian peninsula and that measures should be taken to address the confusion created by the current labelling requirements based on the zones and sub-zones identified by the food and agriculture organisation (fao).
‒ recent cases of fish not corresponding to the labelling being identified in various restaurants, hotels and commercial establishments warrant the development of measures to promote not only the correct identification of the species concerned, but also their origin and processing conditions. in the name of product quality, of improving the conditions of fishermen and producers of fishery products, but also of consumer confidence, we support this measure. certifying the origin and quality of products is a demand of portuguese producers and fishermen, as a means of affirming national products and protecting against adulteration and a kind of commercial dumping. this certification should be carried out by a public body, free of charge, thus avoiding the obligation for producers to pay for this certification to private bodies, which are often not very discriminating.
‒ several studies show significant levels of mislabelling of fishery products sold in the eu, including restaurants of its institutions. this intentional and fraudulent practice is a breach of european union regulations and may constitute an offence under national laws. minimum standards for informing consumers about the origin of these products in a simple and transparent manner need to be established. the same applies to eco-labelling standards. member states should strengthen controls, including on unprocessed fish for restaurants and catering. a european labelling policy will be a key point to boost the development of coastal communities by recognising best practice and highlighting the quality of their products.
‒ as the world's largest market for fishery (and aquaculture) products, the european union must strive for strict and effective regulation of this sector, from extraction and production to retail/restauration. however, several studies have shown that there is a significant number of cases of incorrect and sometimes even fraudulent labelling of fishery (and aquaculture) products sold on the european market. given this reality, which is a violation of community principles (and regulations), it is imperative to alert member states to the need to strengthen their national controls and to require them and the european commission to take measures to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products. with greater monitoring and traceability of these products, not only consumers but also the operators in the sector benefit from the increased trust placed in the system for the extraction, production and sale of fishery and aquaculture products. i also support the proposal to set up an eco-labelling system for fishery/aquaculture products and welcome the feasibility studies to this end. in the interests of rigour, transparency and confidence in the fisheries sales system, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned that several studies indicate that there are significant levels of mislabelling of fishery products in europe. i am sure that incorrect, fraudulent and intentional labelling of fish species is a breach of union rules. it seems to me that genetic barcoding techniques, which facilitate the identification of species by dna sequencing, should be effectively sequenced, and i would stress that these techniques were developed with the help of funding from the european union itself. in other words, once again, we need to effectively transfer scientific and technological developments to the world of industry and, in this case, regulation. i believe that it is necessary to ensure that future eu-wide ecolabels and certification and ecolabelling schemes for seafood from european and third countries are consistent with the fao guidelines for the ecolabelling of fish and fishery products caught at sea. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report and i hope that it will have consequences in establishing a method for certifying certificates. in my view, this method can only have its origins in the european union.
in writing. ‒ recent cases of fish not corresponding to the labelling (the fish version of selling cat for rabbit!) identified in various restaurants, hotels and commercial establishments warrant the development of measures that promote not only a correct identification of the species concerned, but also their origin and processing conditions. in the name of product quality, of improving the conditions of fishermen and producers of fishery products, but also of consumer confidence, we support this measure. certifying the origin and quality of products is a demand of portuguese producers and fishermen, as a means of affirming national products and protecting against adulteration and a kind of commercial dumping. this certification should be carried out by a public body, free of charge, thus avoiding the obligation for producers to pay for this certification to private bodies, which are often not very discriminating.
‒ i voted in favour of the cadec report because i believe that fraudulent labelling of fishery products is not only a violation of eu rules, in particular the common fisheries policy, but also misleads consumers, jeopardises their food security and the stability of marine resources and also distorts the internal market. i believe that european consumers can have full confidence in the entire supply chain of fishery products in the european market and that the eu and the member states have a duty to protect their citizens against fraudulent acts. the outcome of several studies indicating significant levels of mislabelling of fish products sold on the eu market is regrettable. i would stress the call on member states to strengthen national controls in an effort to combat fraud to identify the stage in the supply chain where fish is incorrectly labelled, and to take measures to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products from landing to consumption.
‒ the people's republic of china is one of the largest economies in the world and europe has a major trade relationship with this country: china is now the second largest trading partner of the european union; the european union is china's largest trading partner. total trade between the two economies is running at one billion a day and foreign direct investment between them has been growing significantly. the european union has set out five criteria for determining whether or not we are in a market economy. according to the latest assessment by the european union, china meets only one of the criteria. indeed, 56 of the current 73 anti-dumping measures imposed by the european union concern imports of chinese goods. china does not meet all these criteria and therefore its market economy treatment should be rejected for the time being. the change in its status should only take place when the european union considers that china fulfils all the criteria set.
‒ at the time of china's accession to the wto, a specific methodology for dumping calculation was provided for, which was included in section 15 of the accession protocol, in which china committed, inter alia, to allow all its prices to be determined by market relations, and the eu should ensure that china fully complies with its wto obligations. in this regard, the commission should coordinate with the eu's main trading partners on how best to ensure that all provisions of section 15 of the protocol of accession of china to the wto remain in force after 2016. in parallel, as long as china does not meet the five criteria set by the eu to be considered a market economy, the eu should use the exceptional methodology in the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations concerning chinese imports. i therefore agree that the eu should undertake a general reform of the eu's trade defence instruments, with the aim of ensuring that its industry is on a level playing field with china and other trading partners, in full compliance with wto rules.
‒ as long as china does not meet the five criteria imposed by the eu to be considered a market economy, an 'exceptional methodology' should be used in relation to chinese imports. it is noted that 56 of the 73 anti-dumping measures currently in force in the eu concern imports from china. any decision on how to deal with chinese imports must ensure that european law is in line with wto rules. i further agree that china's overcapacity is already having important social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu and, even in terms of employment in the eu, the social effects of granting china market economy status could be substantial.
‒ this is an issue that goes far beyond the trade issue, which is inseparable from the complex process of rearranging forces at the global level, from china's role in this process and from the relations between the transatlantic bloc and china. the eu has linked five criteria to the definition of the concept of a 'market economy'. china currently meets one of those criteria. we do not accept either the preponderance of the concept in the definition of the rules (or the absence of rules) governing international trade, or the criteria which the eu has decided to attach to it. we are in favour of regulated trade in the interests of the people, not unregulated trade, which tends to lower living and working conditions - the aim of the wto. we believe that each country should determine its trade policy in a sovereign manner in accordance with its own specific interests. the whole logic of the argument in this resolution treats the impacts of trade with china as if the eu were a homogeneous bloc. it's not a good idea. on the other hand, the eu institutions are given the power to decide on the level of trade relations, which is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which are held hostage to commitments that they do not negotiate and that go against the national interest, as is the case in portugal.
‒ china is one of the eu's most important trading partners and for trade relations between the eu. i have followed the line of the european parliament's motion for a resolution which refuses to grant china market economy status. the eu has imposed five technical criteria for the definition of a market economy and china currently meets only one of these criteria. preliminary estimates show that around 188,000 jobs could be lost in eu sectors currently affected by chinese dumping if no mitigation measures are taken.
‒ china is a strategic trading partner for the european union, being its second largest trading partner, generating a turnover of over eur 1 billion per day. the chinese state joined the world trade organisation in 2005 and committed itself to allow all prices to be determined by market conditions, and the eu should ensure that china complies with this obligation. however, there has been state influence in the economy, distorting the signals reflecting supply and demand. i therefore vote in favour of the joint resolution signed by the epp group, because i believe that china must respect its obligations as a member of the wto.
in writing. ‒ from the point of view of trade relations, the question is whether or not they continue to place barriers on a wto member country. in this context, it should be stressed that, from the point of view of the eu's integration process, what we are witnessing is the imposition of its federalist character and of its great economic power. the whole logic of the argument treats the impacts of trade with china as if the european union were a homogeneous bloc, and gives the european institutions the power to decide the level of trade relations, which is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states who are held hostage to commitments that they did not negotiate and that go against the national interest. the resolution even says that the commission should coordinate this issue with the eu's main trading partners, particularly in the context of the upcoming g7 and g20 summits. member states, such as portugal, must be able to define their economic strategies and establish trade relations with other countries. the country's grip on this issue, for example because of the eu's common market strategy, is unacceptable, since it is unable to take measures to provide special protections for the national economy and production. i therefore abstain.
‒ aggressive pricing practices lead to adverse effects on the economies of importing countries. in order to prevent material injury from such practices, legal safeguards are necessary to allow for differential treatment of imports from countries whose economies do not meet the five relevant criteria for market economy status (mes). since 2001, the provisions of section 15 of the protocol of accession of china to the world trade organisation (wto) have provided the legal basis for the application of an exceptional methodology to imports from this part. in accordance with the accession protocol, the suspension of the decision to award the mag by the european union effectively expires on 11 december 2016. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war, and to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war. in view of the above, and in order to ensure that eu industry has a level playing field with china and other trading partners, i voted in favour.
‒ it establishes the importance of the partnership with china, in which fair and free trade plays an important role. it stresses that china is not a market economy and that the five criteria set by the european union to define market economies have not yet been met. this vote is a significant sign that parliament will not accept any measures which weaken our ability to defend against abusive and unfair practices. the commission needs to take into account the concerns expressed by industrialists, trade unions and other bodies about the consequences for eu jobs, the environment and also sustainable growth in all the sectors affected. it called on the council to reach agreement with parliament on the modernisation of its trade defence instruments against chinese dumping.
in the case of the joint resolution we adopted today, of which i am one of the proponents, i would just like to highlight a few ideas. the first is the fact that china is not a market economy and will not be until the end of the year. secondly, that the european union will respect the rules of the world trade organisation in its trade relations with china. thirdly, we will have to undertake a thorough reform of our trade defence mechanisms to ensure appropriate levels of fair competition between our companies and our trading partners. the mechanisms for establishing producer prices in comparative terms and for launching anti-dumping or anti-subsidy investigations should follow a specific framework from 11 december, the date on which the current system expires. after this house's support for these positions, we now expect the commission to come forward with credible and workable proposals with regard to our trade relations with china (after the public consultation process is completed). i remember that we do not have much time left to act proactively and haste, as we know, is the enemy of good decisions.
‒ china has established itself as a strong player on the international scene and as one of the eu's main trading partners. with the approaching expiry of article 15 of the world trade organisation (wto) protocol in december 2016, the eu has to adjust its trade defence mechanisms in bilateral trade with china. it is necessary to assess the potential consequences of granting market economy status to china for the european economic and social sector. the implications will be felt in terms of industrial employment, investment and competitiveness. when china joined the wto in 2001, it committed to implementing reforms towards a market economy. however, after 15 years it meets only one of the five criteria that it should meet to be considered a market economy. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that granting china market economy status will have serious economic consequences for the eu, in particular for the development of a sustainable economy, for the metal and chemical industries and for jobs in the eu.
‒ we are sensitive to the profound impact that such recognition will have on our productive apparatus. and this position stems from past experiences with the opening of the eu market to global competition in key sectors of the portuguese economy such as textiles or footwear. it is not clear why the parties which are now so concerned about the chinese market have not shown as much concern in the past about opening up the eu market to countries such as india or pakistan, to name just a few. this question also raises the question of the role of the european union, which is now unilaterally exercising the right to decide what is or is not a national economy. he wants to teach lessons in democracy and now also in liberal economics. in other words, as we have pointed out, free trade agreements are not neutral and often become instruments of political interference.
‒ i voted against the recognition of china's market economy status because i consider that china does not yet meet the criteria necessary to be considered a market economy. i would point out that given the current level of state influence in the chinese economy, the decisions of companies in terms of prices, costs, production and factors of production do not respond to market signals reflecting supply and demand. i would also remind you that in its accession protocol china has committed itself, inter alia, to allow all its prices to be determined by market forces and that the eu must ensure that china fully complies with its wto obligations. i submit that, as long as china does not meet the market economy criteria, the european union should use an exceptional methodology in the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations concerning chinese imports to determine price comparability.
‒ following the adoption by the united nations in september 2015 of a new strategy for the 2030 agenda for development through the adoption of 17 sustainable development goals, the un general assembly called for the objectives and targets to be monitored and reviewed on the basis of a set of global indicators, and the progress report should support the monitoring and review work of the high level political forum on sustainable development. i support this resolution because i believe that the new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the various eu policy areas and actors, through greater eu coordination, in order to ensure the integration of the environmental, economic and social pillars into the eu's internal and external policies, and that the foreign affairs council should, before the july meeting of the development forum, adopt a coherent and common eu position, taking into account the position of the european parliament.
‒ the proposed set of 230 indicators for the sustainable development goals (sdgs) represents a good starting point and provides a solid framework for monitoring and assessing progress towards the 17 sdgs. i therefore agree that the foreign affairs council should take a coherent and common eu position, taking into account the position of parliament as expressed in this resolution. the 2030 agenda and the sdgs represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and ensure that we deliver.
‒ the '2030 agenda for sustainable development' consists of 17 objectives, divided into 169 targets. adopted unanimously in september 2015 at a un summit, the 17 sustainable development goals, modeled after the millennium development goals, are intended to be a shared vision for humanity and a social contract with the peoples of the world. the resolution not only welcomes the objectives and the importance of their universality, but also highlights the fact that the eu (as a regional bloc) and its member states (individually) have committed themselves to implementing all the objectives and targets. however, throughout the resolution there is no criticism that the eu's own formal and informal legislation (notably on economic governance) is an obstacle to the achievement of these objectives, as the institutionalization and imposition of neoliberal policies have further aggravated poverty and hunger, deregulated labour laws and therefore have de-dignified work, accentuated class inequalities, degraded public health and education services and inhibited economic growth. while we are aware of the urgent need to work towards achieving the sdgs, we cannot remain indifferent to the eu's hypocrisy and its omission in this resolution.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, including a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the involvement of the european parliament. i voted in favour.
‒ i understand that the high level political forum (hlpf) has a key role in reviewing the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and that it should ensure a coordinated and effective needs assessment and the adoption of the roadmaps needed for the effective implementation of the 2030 agenda. the 2030 agenda and the sdgs represent an international agreement with the aim of eradicating poverty, redefining and modernising our development strategies for the next 15 years and ensuring that we achieve results. i believe that the eu should adopt a sustainable development strategy and its implementation policies should be the subject of a broad consultation involving all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
‒ the '2030 agenda for sustainable development', adopted in 2015 at the un, consists of 17 goals based on the millennium development goals. they are meant to be a common vision for humanity and a social contract between world leaders and the people. the resolution not only welcomes the objectives and the importance of their universality, but also highlights the fact that the eu (as a regional bloc) and its member states (individually) have committed themselves to implementing all the objectives and targets. however, throughout the resolution there is no criticism that the eu's own formal and informal legislation (notably on economic governance) is an obstacle to the achievement of these objectives, as the institutionalization and imposition of economic and neoliberal policies have further aggravated poverty and hunger, deregulated labour laws and therefore have de-dignified work, accentuated class inequalities, degraded public health and education services and inhibited economic growth. while we are aware of the urgent need to work towards achieving the sdgs, we cannot remain indifferent to the eu's hypocrisy and its omission in this resolution. for this reason, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the commission should present a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the full involvement of parliament, including a concrete implementation plan. the same should be done with regard to providing clear information on the implementation structure of the 2030 agenda at union and member state level. i would also like to stress the call for the european union and its member states to renew their commitment to allocate 0.7% of gni to official development assistance.
‒ the document 2030 agenda for sustainable development was adopted at the united nations summit on sustainable development in new york last september. the european parliament considers that it will be for the sustainable development policy forum to ensure a coordinated and efficient assessment of the needs and the adoption of the measures necessary for the effective implementation of this agenda. the sdgs and the global goals represent an international commitment by the eu and its member states to eradicate poverty by redefining and modernising development strategies for the next 15 years. this resolution - which i voted for - calls for the commission to present a proposal for the monitoring and implementation of the sustainable development strategy, covering the relevant internal and external policies and the timetable to be followed up to 2030. given the importance and universality of the objectives to which the eu has committed itself, the new eu sustainable development strategy and the implementation policies associated with it should be subject to broad public consultation, in particular with all stakeholders, using the most inclusive procedure possible.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely in solidarity with the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs). i think it is very important that there is a commission communication on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda which contains clear information on the structure of the implementation of the agenda at union and member state level. i also believe that the budget proposals and implementation of the european institutions should reflect respect for the sdgs and that member states' budgets should allocate specific funds to achieve the sdgs. since all these perspectives are reflected in this motion for a resolution, i voted in favour. i am in general agreement with amendment no 1. however, i consider it excessive to be certain that the international trade agreements in preparation will have negative impacts on the sdgs and it seems to me that we should not scatter this important document over other legal initiatives that are under way. that's why i abstained.
‒ at a time when the un and governments around the world continue to shout the sustainable development goals (sdgs), it is important to clarify that they do not represent the interests of the majority of the world's population - those who are exploited and oppressed under the current political and economic order. the sdgs say that we can eradicate poverty in all its forms by 2030. but they rely mostly on global economic growth to accomplish this enormous task. if that growth is similar to the growth of the last few decades, it will take 100 years to end poverty, not the 15 years that the sdgs promise. and even if that were possible on a shorter timetable, it would require a 12-fold increase in the size of the global economy, which, in addition to making our planet uninhabitable, will obliterate any progress against poverty. instead of hiding this obvious folly with false hopes, we must begin by addressing two crucial problems: income inequality and the economic system that generates this inequality.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and status of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, as i consider eu-un institutional cooperation at multilateral level essential to achieve the common goals of eradicating poverty and redefining and modernising our development strategies for the next 15 years. i would stress the call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the full involvement of the european parliament. i stress the need to extend the spirit of cooperation to all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, through an inclusive and transparent process, in order to achieve sustainable results.
‒ one of the main concerns of european citizens has been the question of the origin and provenance of certain foodstuffs such as meat, milk and milk products, whether for reasons of public health or for the right to information for an informed consumer choice. i support this resolution, which strengthens labelling and consumer information on foodstuffs, and special attention should be paid to the origin of meat in processed foods in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and restore consumer confidence.
‒ 84% of european citizens think it is necessary to indicate the origin of milk and 88% think it is necessary to indicate the origin of meat. the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance should be compulsory for all types of milk for consumption, dairy products and meat products, because this is a way of restoring consumer confidence in the wake of the horse meat scandal and other cases of food fraud. the extension of this obligation to other foods consisting of a single ingredient or with a predominant ingredient should be considered.
in writing. ‒ according to article 26 (5) of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, the commission should present by december 2014 reports and possible legislative proposals on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain types of meat and for milk, unprocessed foods, single ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. on 20 may 2015, the commission published two impact assessment reports, 6 months behind schedule. the conclusions in both reports were the same: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of all these categories of food remains on a voluntary basis. this resolution takes the opposite view. the commission's analysis overlooks the positive aspects of country of origin labelling, such as the benefits of greater consumer information and involvement, support for local production and economy, shorter transport distances, shorter supply chains and fresher products. the indication of the country of origin is not a panacea, but is positive from several points of view. any requirements that the measure may impose on certain smes should be duly considered in the legislative process. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods, because i share the view that the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed foods should also become compulsory for other types of meat, in addition to beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat, for drinking milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and for unprocessed foods, products consisting of a single ingredient and those ingredients representing more than 50% of a food.
‒ according to the 2013 eurobarometer survey, 84% of eu citizens consider it necessary to indicate the origin of milk, whether it is sold as such or used as an ingredient in dairy products. according to the same survey, 88% of eu citizens consider it necessary to indicate the origin of meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry. i am in favour of mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed foods, and it should also become mandatory for other types of meat than beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat, for drinking milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and for unprocessed foods, products consisting of a single ingredient and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. my favourable position is also due to the demands expressed by the azorean milk producers and the meat producers of mainland portugal, and i am thus following their concerns and demands.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the protection of the environment, parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. we also ask the commission to consider extending this obligation to other single-ingredient or predominantly single-ingredient foods by drawing up legislative proposals on these matters. the aim is to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to provide european consumers with more complete information. according to a eurobarometer survey, the vast majority of consumers want to know the origin of these products.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment. in fact, according to the eurobarometer and a commission report on the subject, a fairly significant number of european consumers consider it important to indicate the origin of the product used in its unprocessed form or as an ingredient in processed food products: 84% for milk, 88% for meat and more than 90% for processed food products containing meat. it seems to me clear that only by implementing measures of this kind will greater rigour and higher quality and hygiene standards in this sector be promoted, further stimulating the restoration of consumer confidence in food products and promoting greater transparency, traceability and readability of the information provided to them through labelling. in this resolution i advocated compulsory labelling for the origin of the products in question, against the recommendation of the political group to which i belong, which advocated voluntary labelling. i did so, together with the portuguese members of the ppe, for the reasons stated above.
‒ the indication of the origin of meat and milk on the label allows for differentiation which, by recognising the quality and expressing consumer preference, contributes to the enhancement of the value of the products, the territory and the agricultural employment involved. this is of particular interest when the agricultural sector, and in particular the milk sector, is experiencing a persistent price crisis. in the azores, the region from which i come, milk production is one of the main activities on which the regional economy depends and is also a striking element of the regional landscape and culture. the sector has modernised and invested in quality improvement to offer a product with superior characteristics to consumers. the designation of origin 'azores' is a way of associating the product with the quality of its production, which should be recognised and preferred by consumers. the rules underlying the labelling of origin should be strict as regards the correspondence between the mention and the content, precisely to ensure consumer confidence. i therefore support the indication of origin on the labelling of meat and milk because it is an element that allows the consumer a choice which is reflected in the defence of local and quality agricultural production.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed measures should be implemented in a manner which ensures that the products concerned are not used in the same way as those originating in the member states. the implementation of policies that guarantee fair production quotas and rights in this context and not asymmetrical production as the liberalisation of markets promoted by the eu does. policies that defend national production. secondly, the commission would have to take account of the need to ensure competitive prices for similar products of the same quality as those of foreign producers, i.e. to ensure that producers have the same working methods and access to the goods and services needed for production at similar prices and quality. in addition, proximity to and access to national production is increasingly being affected by policies that promote and support large retailers at the expense of local and traditional trade.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of food safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: at a time when there are many examples of media coverage of processed foods with ingredients other than those indicated on the packaging, it is imperative to restore consumer confidence in labels on the one hand and the credibility of the food industry on the other. to this end, i would stress the call on the commission to submit legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat compulsory in processed foods, as well as in other types of meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultrymeat, in drinking milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and in unprocessed foods, single-ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food.
‒ the importance of a balance between family life and working life is indisputable. much progress has been made in this area, including the guarantee of a set of rights for european mothers. however, there is a growing need to ensure some level of protection for paternal parents, both as protection of family life and in the wider context of promoting gender equality. portugal is an exemplary member state in this respect, guaranteeing protection for both. there are, however, many member states where this is not the case. it is clear that there are still gaps that need to be addressed, in particular in the transposition of the applicable directive. there are also considerable differences between the various member states, but the increasing mobility of european citizens makes the benefit of approximating the various legal systems clear. while recognising that social benefits are a matter for the member states, i believe that issues such as the payment of paternity leave or the defence of more simplified schemes, removing unnecessary barriers to these social rights, should be points of consensus at european level.
‒ fathers and mothers do not take parental leave in the same way, which is detrimental to families and the situation of women in particular, who often end up sacrificing their career prospects in favour of their children. there is a directive in the eu aimed at countering this trend, but the results of its implementation have been mixed. in the eu, workers are entitled to parental leave when a child is born or adopted. however, in europe, access to and remuneration for this leave is determined by national legislation, which varies significantly between member states. i agree that paid parental leave is essential to ensure that men take it because it allows a better balance of the various spheres of life between men and women, ending discrimination at work for women.
in writing. the report lists some concerns and draws a number of policy conclusions, including but not limited to the following: - parental leave legislation should be revised to improve the points on duration, payment, transfer and scope; - the right of women to combine employment with rights and the right to maternity must be guaranteed without being penalized for doing so. this refers to the pressure exerted by employers on women in job interviews;- the key role of labour rights, safety at work, the defence of collective agreements and the promotion of family-friendly working environments;- the increase in the age of the child for which parental leave can be used;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave can be taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave is taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave is taken;- the increase in the number of children for whom parental leave is taken; - to ensure financial compensation for parental leave to a level which would act as an incentive. this is not a perfect report, far from it. it's not enough. in particular, the absence of a reference to 100% pay, the lack of emphasis on increasing wages and labour rights as a way of promoting the right to maternity and a happy childhood in a context of gender equality, among other aspects. however, it is considered to be a positive document. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement on parental leave. i believe that the european union is facing a major demographic challenge, with declining birth rates in most member states. the political debate should be centred on joint action to strengthen the role of parents by promoting work-life balance. there should be a concern to achieve greater coordination, coherence and accessibility of licensing schemes in the different member states.
‒ i am voting in favour of this directive which aims to overcome the challenges of work-life balance by allowing the family to reconcile their personal and professional lives. it is also important to stress that mothers who have unfortunately had premature babies should have greater flexibility and longer parental leave in order to accompany their children on the spot and whenever necessary. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the political debate also focusing on a series of non-legislative initiatives with a view to joint action with the member states and civil society in order to enhance the role of parents and promote work-life balance.
‒ the document fails to analyse the actual causes of the decline in birth rates or the deepening of inequalities. it omits the inseparable link between the increasing deterioration of workers' living and working conditions, the destruction of public services and facilities and the neoliberal and austerity policies imposed by the eu. the report does, however, list some policy proposals that we are supporting:- the need to review legislation to improve on issues such as duration, payment, transfer and scope;- the reinstatement of the maternity leave directive;- the call for women to be guaranteed the right to combine work with rights and the right to maternity without being penalised for doing so;- the importance of extending the scope of the right to parental leave;- the extension of the minimum duration of parental leave from four to at least six months. it should go further, in particular in the allocation of parental leave allowances paid at 100% of reference pay, alongside the need for wage increases and labour rights as a way of promoting maternity rights. it is a positive document in general and justifies a vote in favour.
‒ i recall that the framework agreement on initial parental leave between the social partners' organisations, which later became the council directive, dates back to 1996 and was completely revised in 2010. the aim of this report was to assess their implementation, which often varies considerably between member states (duration, legal form, etc.). it also links up with motherhood and fatherhood, since they often overlap, and makes a number of proposals for improving and modernising legislation. some of the proposals are: gender equality in the sharing of family responsibilities and an increase in the rate of participation of fathers in parental leave; an increase in the participation of women in the labour market (target of 75% in europe 2020, currently at 63.5%); the promotion of work-life balance; an increase in the age of the child for whom parental leave can be taken; improving coordination, coherence and accessibility with regard to national leave systems, ensuring non-discrimination, including here entry and return to the labour market.
‒ the purpose of this report was to assess the application of parental leave legislation by the different member states. unfortunately, there are wide differences in the way parental leave is applied in the different member states. in order to respond to the enormous demographic challenges we face, the challenges of economic growth and the need to promote gender equality in the union, this report warns of the need to correct these differences. it is considered that this legislation should be revised in order to strengthen the points concerning the duration, remuneration, coherence, transferability and scope of the licences. i would like to say that i agree with the principles proposed in general, but i would point out that this is a matter in which the principle of subsidiarity applies and that it is the responsibility of the member states to define their national policies on the family. so, although i voted in favour of the final report, i would point out that many of the proposals in the original proposal have been amended and i have voted in line with the ppe voting list, except for the granting of special leave for the support of premature babies - (proposal for a) measure which i supported - and the extension of the period of parental leave (on which i abstained).
‒ the report lists some concerns and draws a number of policy conclusions, many of them positive. it falls short of what we advocate, in particular the absence of a reference to 100% pay, the emphasis on increasing wages and labour rights as a way of promoting the rights to maternity and a happy childhood in a context of gender equality, the extension of compulsory time for mothers and fathers and full transferability in the remaining period. however, in view of the above, it is considered to be a positive document and therefore deserves a favourable vote.
‒ the fight against trafficking in human beings is an absolute priority for the european union. a scourge that knows no borders and which has unfortunately become even more worrying with the so-called 'refugee crisis'. but the union, and this is largely thanks to the european parliament, is not only concerned with the scale of the fight and the repression, but also with prevention and with providing the greatest possible support to those who are victims of this crime. the directive in this area has already been transposed by 27 member states. it is clear that everyone should apply it, but it is also important to ensure that it is transposed correctly. on the other hand, as the rapporteur acknowledges, there is still a lot of work to be done. in the field of prevention, member states should make use of all the means at their disposal, including europol. at the level of victims, particular attention should be paid to those most affected - women - and to the most vulnerable, such as children. i therefore support this report.
‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights as well as a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the state and the rule of law. a 2011 directive established a legal framework to facilitate criminal prosecutions against traffickers and was recognised as a comprehensive legal instrument with a commendable human rights-centred approach and a clear emphasis on the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings. so far, 26 member states have officially notified the commission of transposition, with only germany missing. i also believe that adequate services and fair treatment of victims also play a role in prevention.
in writing. the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims aims to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings and to reduce the vulnerability of potential victims. the report identifies that trafficking in human beings is driven by the pursuit of high profits, estimated at around $150 million/year. it analyses the root causes of trafficking and finds that trafficking of women, girls, men and boys for sexual exploitation has decreased in countries that criminalise solicitation, including both pimping and clientelism. it stresses that the victims are overwhelmingly women. notes that despite the directive, victims still struggle with access to justice, information, access to specialised services, including access to safe short- and long-term accommodation, witness protection schemes, healthcare, including the right to terminate a pregnancy, counselling, translation and interpretation services, judicial redress, compensation, access to education, language instruction in their country of residence, assistance with employment, (re) integration, family mediation and resettlement. despite the positive aspects, there are controversial aspects from which we distance ourselves (europol, eurojust, frontex and cepol, among others).
in writing. ‒ in the light of article 5 (3) of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, trafficking in human beings constitutes a serious violation of fundamental rights, as well as a violation of the human dignity and physical and mental integrity of victims, responsible for serious harm to them throughout their lives. i would point out that directive 2011/36/eu should have been transposed into the national legislation of the member states by 6 april 2013 and that all member states except one have notified the commission of the transposition of that directive into national law. i believe it is essential that member states speed up the correct and full implementation of directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the gender dimension should be properly accompanied in the implementation of eu legislation and that member states should adopt gender-differentiated measures. men and women, as well as girls and boys, are differently vulnerable and trafficked for different purposes and that prevention, assistance and support measures should therefore be gender-sensitive.
‒ directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims of trafficking from a gender perspective aims to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings and reduce the vulnerability of potential victims. the report identifies that trafficking in human beings is driven by the pursuit of high profits, estimated at around $150 million/year. it analyses the root causes of trafficking and finds that trafficking of women, girls, men and boys for sexual exploitation has decreased in countries that criminalise solicitation, including both pimping and clientelism. stresses that the victims are overwhelmingly women, victims who can be found in both legal and illegal activities, including: prostitution, agriculture, the food industry, domestic work, the manufacturing sector, the care sector, cleaning, begging, crime, forced marriage, the sexual exploitation of children online, illegal adoptions and human organ trafficking. despite an adequate overall assessment, issues such as the framework for the response centred on structures such as europol, eurojust or frontex; the proposal for an independent national rapporteur; with which we disagree, justify abstention.
‒ the report on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims from a gender perspective defines trafficking in human beings as a violation of human dignity, the physical and mental integrity of victims. this form of crime is based on the exploitation of victims which includes exploitation for the purposes of prostitution, for forced labour such as begging, slavery, exploitation of criminal activities as well as organ harvesting in order to obtain very high profits. the report warns that trafficking in human beings is taking on a gender dimension, for example 80% of victims exposed to sexual exploitation are women and girls. it also stresses the importance of protecting and identifying victims belonging to socially vulnerable groups, such as children, young people, lgbti people and people with disabilities, who are still somewhat overlooked. i voted in favour because the report calls on member states to correctly transpose directive 2011/36/eu on trafficking in human beings, further strengthens the rights of the most vulnerable, encourages greater coordination in the collection of data to identify victims and promotes exchanges of best practices to address the specific needs of such victims.
‒ directive 2011/36 / eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims aims to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings and reduce the vulnerability of potential victims. the report identifies that trafficking in human beings is driven by the pursuit of high profits, estimated at around $150 million/year. it analyses the root causes of trafficking and finds that trafficking of women, girls, men and boys for sexual exploitation has decreased in countries that criminalise solicitation, including both pimping and clientelism. the report clearly identifies that women and girls are particularly vulnerable, as well as asylum seekers, refugees and migrants, and therefore special attention should be paid to trafficking in women, children and other vulnerable groups. it urges the eu member states to provide appropriate training for all those involved in this process.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would, however, like to begin on a note: i think that the subject of this debate is wrong, because if we take into account the cases under consideration, the loans that have been cancelled are loans that were made in national currencies and not in foreign currencies. but let's not kid ourselves. in fact, the objective of the practices reported is to eliminate all risk on the part of the financial institutions, by shifting that risk, as always, onto the customers. the only justification for the profitability of banking is that we assume that the risk is also assumed by the banks either in full or at least in part. that is what should be taken into account when we talk about any credit agreement. but that's not the case with most mortgage contracts, and in fact, every time we talk about this, we should remember how many families have had tragic situations, because they couldn't pay their loans, they had to be homeless and they still had to pay. so the risk was entirely on the side of the households and the financial sector was entirely protected. in this respect, i would say that the response of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this house on this specific matter is quite revealing. and it is revealing, i would say, of the attitude of the european institutions to the regulation of the financial sector. the european institutions have no problem interfering in the management of national financial sectors, as they did, in fact, very recently, and illegally, in the process of selling banif in portugal. but if citizens complain about contracts which violate the principles of good faith, balance and fairness, the response of the european institutions is very simple and almost always the same: take the banks to court and settle. so the titanic europe we see in the imposition of budgetary policies or the selection of buyers in national tenders always, or almost always, becomes a dwarf when it comes to protecting citizens against those who are the abuses of the financial sector. and it is for these and other reasons, commissioner, that the credibility of the european institutions and the european union has plummeted across europe. there can't continue to be such a heavy burden on citizens and all the excuses and a few more to continue to protect the financial sector. and therefore, promises are not enough; it is not enough to say that the commission intends to protect consumers. concrete action is needed, and i would like to see the commission's commitment to protecting the citizens of this european union matched by its commitment to protecting the internal market and the free movement of capital.
to consolidate itself and to combat the risks of political, economic and social fragmentation, the european union needs to strengthen its strategic stakes. the digital union, of which the digital single market is a central component, is one of those priorities. the market of 500 million consumers and the dawn of a new digital age are opportunities that the european union cannot afford to lose. anyone wishing to operate in the european digital market must comply with the rules of that market, but to do so, those rules must be adapted to new technological challenges and avoid unnecessary barriers to the development of trade, in the context of equity in access, inclusion, consumer and small and medium-sized enterprise protection, and respect for individual and collective rights. the decision to move forward with three legislative proposals for e-commerce (eliminating unjustified geo-blocking, regulating cross-border delivery costs and strengthening consumer protection) and a directive updating the rules applicable to audiovisual services and online platforms is timely and partially recovers the backlog in the implementation of the strategy set out in the communication of 6 may 2015. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take action in the field of digital rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first like to welcome commissioner, vice-president timmermans and i would like to say the following. it is clear that the agenda of this g7 is extremely broad. the japanese presidency has not hesitated to make a sort of briefing on all the subjects, and i should like to focus on four main themes. the first concerns investment, and i think the european union must make some effort on its own. i think that the juncker plan is not enough, since the most important economies of the european union (i am thinking of germany, france, the united kingdom and italy) are also individually represented here. they have to make their own effort and, in particular, some of them are in a position to invest in quality and qualifying infrastructure, which can play a pioneering role in the european and global economy, and therefore, as president obama said in his recent hanover speech, it is important that the g7 countries also make an effort to make this investment. the second point which i think is essential and which also affects us, the european union, is the tax question and, in particular, the question of tax havens, where i think we can do much more and the g7 has great responsibilities. it is also important to involve these countries, and not just europe, in the refugee crisis. canada, japan, the united states, australia cannot isolate themselves from this struggle. and finally, i just want to leave a word, and i'll end with this, on a very important point, which is the zika virus. we talk a lot about ebola, but zika is coming to europe, it's already reaching the southern edge of europe, and it's critical that the g7 address this issue. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much for your question. what i said is exactly that, in a double sense. firstly, as regards the question of economic start-up, the idea that we ourselves, the more developed countries, have investment obligations and, in particular, those countries which are more disadvantaged, which can pull on others, and this applies to the global economy as it applies to the european economy. and on the issue of refugees, i have no doubt that europe should not face this challenge alone, although it can do a lot and is already doing something. it must meet this challenge with the support of the other countries with the greatest economic power in the world. they also have a responsibility, they also have a responsibility for refugees.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i would also like to make a reference to the question of international trade. we must improve the international political environment so that the nationalist virus, which is manifesting itself on a large scale in the political sphere, is not matched by a kind of protectionist virus in the sphere of international trade relations. but this requires a great effort on the part of the world's major powers, and european opinion has a very important role to play in creating a more favourable environment, with greater transparency from the commercial, budgetary and also fiscal point of view, in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. because if not, we are in fact creating the conditions for protectionism to come back into force with all the tragic consequences that may result. the second aspect i would like to mention here is precisely the need to design the treatment of the refugee question at world level. the european union has tried to respond, sometimes better, sometimes worse, but the truth is that we have to find the capacity to create a global concern for the treatment of this issue and i believe that this is a particularly favourable occasion for this issue to be placed on the world political agenda.
mr president, last week i joined the libe commission delegation to the united states and we found a surprising receptivity on the part of all our interlocutors, especially the big tech companies, towards the general data protection regulation, which was recently adopted under pressure from this parliament, recognising that it is an unparalleled global regulatory framework through which they will be able to develop activities and offer services with respect for fundamental rights and greater legal certainty. these are the parameters for assessing the privacy shield agreed between the commission and the united states. it is of the utmost importance in this digital age, which is not just a digital economy, to strengthen trust and security in transatlantic data exchanges and to ensure legal certainty for businesses and citizens, based on a robust legal framework, equivalent data protection regimes and less vulnerability to criminal use, which clearly does not yet exist in the united states. in doing so, we acknowledge the important work of the european commission, from the court of justice's lead in the maximillian schrems case, to the previous safe harbor regime to negotiating this privacy shield and the framework agreement. nevertheless, there are still serious doubts, serious reservations, as to the compatibility with primary european law and the charter of fundamental rights, as required by the court of justice. it is worrying that the administrative and judicial means of appeal are too complex for an ordinary citizen, and are not available to non-european citizens residing in the european union, thus discriminating against their fundamental rights. on the other hand, violations are not punished in a sufficiently dissuasive manner. like many of our american counterparts, we also have serious reservations about the fact that the ombudsman does not have the necessary status of independence from the administration. in addition, the current version of the agreement still allows for large-scale data collection, albeit targeted, against the criteria of necessity and proportionality prescribed by the european charter of fundamental rights. it is in the interests of the authorities, businesses, european citizens, americans and others to create a legal, coherent and stable regime. that is why this parliament must make its reservations explicit, by calling on the commission and the united states to implement the recommendations of working party 29, to make periodic reviews of the adequacy of this instrument in the light of the new general data protection regulation and in the light of the decision in the maximillian schrems case, and also to pursue the transatlantic dialogue to overcome shortcomings and improve the protection of citizens' rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened closely to the debate and have taken careful note of your views. first of all, my simple answer about responsibility: i am responsible. please tell me if i am wrong. i am responsible, i am honest and i will continue my job with responsibility, yes, because i am responsible for the commission being in delay. is that enough? is it clear? second, i would like to mention about scientific opinions. you mentioned scientists in common positions, speaking about potency and other things. now, it was my intention to invite different scientists, to organise several debates, and then to organise a platform and today they have a common position. of course in this position many issues are on the table. some of you raised questions about the issue that the commission is in delay. yes, of course. we started with a roadmap, with four options. it started with possibilities to deal with, how to describe and define, final scientific criteria. interim scientific criteria are in place and you know this very well. and the commission follows interim criteria. some of you spoke about how to regulate. all things related to the plant protection regulation and the biocidal products regulation are under commission supervision and we follow interim criteria, and our consumers are protected in this area. we must tell the truth to our society but not feed fear. we need scientific criteria, not politically-based criteria. it is completely different. in my hands is the document about those chemicals from 2012. you know it very well. it is a very good summary, a very good study, which shows how it is important. as you know, my professional background is as a medical doctor. i am very much interested in endocrine disruptors criteria. i know much more related to some problems which were just mentioned. ok, we will keep in mind that we need very scientific and very reasonable criteria. of course some of you mentioned the impact assessment. the impact assessment is one thing. but i started to debate about how to describe final criteria and it takes time. two parallel processes were together, and of course an impact assessment helps us to make very informed decisions. this is also ok. i fully agree with the court’s decision. absolutely. but the court was not against the impact assessment. the court decision was very clear. despite the impact assessment, despite different scientific opinion, the commission must present final criteria. of course the commission was in delay, and we are ready to do our best and to present those criteria to you on 15 june once again. and then it will be good to have not politically-based arguments but scientifically-based ones and i am ready to debate scientifically. and of course it has nothing to do with ttip, absolutely. this is also a political argument to feed a lobby, industrial fears and so on, but it is not serious. the serious argument is that it is a very complex job. it is very difficult speaking about who scientists, about different scientific bodies, it is not so easy to present those criteria, and i am ready to do my best and present those criteria, of course, in line with the biocidal products regulation and in line with the pesticide protection regulation.
in writing. on 16 december, the european commission was condemned for failing to propose a definition of endocrine disruptors. this definition is, however, essential for a regulation. these molecules, which are found in many plant and food products, are the cause of many health problems. it was the commission's duty to protect the health of europeans; it has chosen to defend the interests of the industrial lobbies. in response to this failure, a motion of censure against the commission was tabled and unfortunately failed. only this motion was likely to put pressure on the commission. but instead, we are offered a resolution, without binding force. it's an attempt to smoke. it is for those who have not asked for censorship to make europeans believe that they care about public health. the patriots will not participate in this charade. this resolution is a bad communication operation for the gullible. meanwhile, nothing is being done to protect the health of europeans.
the court of justice of the eu found that the european commission had infringed community law by failing to meet the deadline for publication of marketing standards for chemicals harmful to health, such as bisphenol a, pesticides or solvents. the court's ruling does not include a fine but requires that the document on scientific criteria for determining the harmfulness of so-called endocrine disruptors be adopted as soon as possible. the decision stems from the case brought by sweden against the commission, which should have adopted the standards by the end of 2013. two years too late, as denounced by several european associations, which speak of a public health problem, when endocrine disruptors will be the cause of various diseases such as cancer or even increased infertility. this is yet another sign of the interests these institutions are defending.
madam president, commissioner, consolidating a robust digital union is one of the strategic priorities for combating the political, economic and social fragmentation we are experiencing in the european union. and the digital revolution opens up a huge opportunity for us, for society, for the economy, and just today you have presented very important measures and pieces of legislation for the development of the digital market. but we have to complement that. we need a european data cloud, a set of simple processes so that businesses and citizens can take advantage of the new governance models. portugal has an excellent example, it is called simplex, and the european union needs to develop a european simplex: easy digital identification, digitisation by principle, online access to public and private services, integration or interconnection of databases to create one-stop shops and qualify users. the future begins today, commissioner, and we must act quickly to put this agenda into practice: a european-based e-government at the service of our citizens and our businesses.
mr president, commissioner, the completion of the energy union is essential if europe is to strengthen its sovereignty, secure and diversify its supply and lead the energy transition to a model based on clean and renewable energy. but when we talk about the energy transition, we also have to talk about the social model that will enable europeans to have the energy they need for a decent life. achieving this objective implies implementing a policy mix appropriate to each regional and sub-regional market. we need to know very well the concrete data on energy poverty in each country in order to check the conformity and quality of the responses and, on the basis of the concrete data, we need to act both in the field of energy efficiency and in the field of market regulation. eliminate aggressive business practices for the most vulnerable, establish social reference tariffs, use incentive systems to encourage efficiency practices and reduce costs. these are some examples of what can be done. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, theresa griffin, on her suggestions, on the subject she has raised and on the fact that she has integrated the social dimension, because we need to ensure in the energy transition economic gains in competitiveness, environmental gains in sustainability and social gains in equity. that's our challenge. it's big, but it's strong and it's good.
madam president, the european union can no longer hide the consequences of its neoliberal policies. the impoverishment of the people is only one of the faces of the implementation of the austerity policies, the memoranda, the economic governance of the european semester. it is clear from these figures that today 25% of the population of the european union of 28 is at risk of poverty before social benefits, more than 120 million citizens. policies that have exacerbated inequalities and social exclusion, with a particular impact on women, which have culminated in attacks on the social role of the state, destroying and privatising public services, attacking workers' rights and collective bargaining. the fight against social inequalities, poverty, discrimination against women and the improvement of their economic and social status can only be achieved by breaking with the policies of exploitation, by valuing wages, regulation and labour safety and collective hiring, by increasing the provision of free and quality public services in the areas of health, education, social security, among others.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’d like to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms arena, for her report on gender inequality in the world of work and on the implications that this has for our society. i would also like to thank her for setting out the recommendations in the report so clearly. while the female employment rate has increased to just above 64% in 2015, women’s lower earnings and under—representation in the labour market continues to mean that their financial situation is less secure than men’s. as we heard, many more women than men are living in poverty in the eu and – as she explained – the risk of poverty is especially high among single mothers, and also among older women. women’s lower pay and the fact that they often do part—time work and take gaps in their careers often leads to gender pension gaps; women’s pensions are 40% lower than men’s and, of course, women are less likely to have a pension at all. in june last year, the council agreed some conclusions on the gender pension gap, and these called for work to continue to narrow this gap, and for member states’ social and employment policies to be assessed as part of the european semester process. last december, the commission published a strategic engagement for gender equality that set out the overall framework for european initiatives that were aimed at improving gender equality and, in that, priority areas included increasing the numbers of women in work, reducing the gender pay gap and the pension gap, and also making women more financially independent. we continue to keep a close eye on these issues and we have provided country specific recommendations to those that face the greatest challenges. as set out in your report, adequate work—life balance policies are needed so that women who want to can play a full part in the labour market. last year, the commission launched a ‘new start’ initiative to improve work—life balance for parents and other people caring for family members. that looks at a range of measures to promote adequate leave and flexible working arrangements and to support affordable professional care services. the second phase of the consultation will be launched shortly, on the legislative parts of the ‘new start’ initiative, and my colleagues will be tabling proposals on that by the end of the year. the commission’s plans to create a european pillar of social rights have gender equality also at their heart. the draft pillar that’s now been agreed for wider consultation puts the emphasis on improving the situation of women in the labour market. i think that fairness, which lies at the heart of this report, is central to the commission’s agenda, and the principle that no one should be left behind will continue to drive forward our work to support greater gender equality in europe.
the european union simply cannot hide the consequences of its neoliberal policies. the impoverishment of workers and peoples is only one of the faces of the implementation of the so-called austerity policies, the memoranda, economic governance and the european semester. the other is capitalist accumulation and concentration, the fattening of monopolies. 25% of the eu-28 population is at risk of poverty before social benefits, over 120 million citizens. eu policies have exacerbated inequalities and social exclusion, with a particular impact on women: attacks on the social role of the state, by destroying and privatising public services, attacking workers' rights and collective bargaining. the fight against social inequalities, poverty, discrimination against women and the raising of their economic and social status can only be achieved by breaking with the policies of exploitation, by valuing wages, by rights and labour security, by collective contracting, by increasing the provision of free and quality public services in the areas of health, education, social security, among others, which requires a clear break with the eu policies.
virtual currencies are undoubtedly a promising technology, but there is no guarantee that they can be considered as a currency in all its fullness. in this sense, we think that the report is balanced, it seeks to avoid a false message of total reassurance to the potential users of this new instrument. since the concept of blockchain was created, many currencies have been created, many have died, many more are yet to be born, others have been compulsively forced to close down because they provide cover for illegal activities. we are still living in a period of uncertainty, doubts persist about the limited or even finite nature of the money supply, at least in the current form of mining. there are lingering doubts about his still very volatile character. we therefore support the report which points out these shortcomings, but recognizes the need to monitor this phenomenon which is already arousing the appetite of the major economic groups.
peter praet, a member of the ecb's executive board, was recently in portugal, where he spoke to the media. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. but he goes further: in addition to questioning the reduction of working hours to 35 hours, he advocates the need to concentrate the banking system by internationalising it. it even makes veiled threats to raise interest rates, as if they were not already being manipulated by the ecb. these statements are intolerable and demonstrate that the ecb has long exceeded its mandate. the ecb is far from being a neutral central bank at the service of the economy today. the ecb is now at the service of the big financial groups, promoting neo-liberal policies and ignoring the sovereign will of the national states.
madam president, the crisis has set in and with it a piece of evidence. the successive revisions of the cap, all of them market-oriented, all of them aimed at destroying all public instruments of production regulation, are at the basis of an excess of production which threatens thousands of producers with outright bankruptcy. there has been much talk of a supported reduction in production, but how will this reduction be processed? on a voluntary basis? with national or community support? and who will reduce it? will it be the weakest and most dependent countries that have once again been the main victims of the european union's neoliberal policies? let's get serious about this. let's face it! let us not be afraid to admit our mistake! milk quotas, whether they are called this or that, are the indispensable way to guarantee decent prices for producers and, at the same time, food sovereignty for each national state. leaving everything to the whirlwind of the markets will only benefit those at the base of all these reforms, namely the large agri-food industry which continues to accumulate profits at the expense of production.
madam president, it is urgent to invest in european mechanisms to protect the income of milk producers and to strengthen support for regions where the dairy sector is of crucial economic, social and environmental importance, combined with a production fabric with a greater capacity to withstand price shocks, as is the case in the azores. the azores produce 30% of the milk in portugal. the sector has been rejuvenated and modernised and is facing difficulties in its future prospects. aid must go to those who need it, as was said yesterday at comm agre, and this is what the european institutions have an obligation to ensure. we are faced with a european problem which requires a strong european incentive to commit all production to the objective of supply control. otherwise, there will always be those who will continue to increase production and aggravate the situation of those who have less geographically based competitive advantages. and we need measures to ensure fair prices for production in the face of the shameful pressures of the big surfaces.
madam president, i speak on behalf of every portuguese milk producer, from minho to the azores. it's people i'm talking about, not just cattle. there must be national and european measures to combat the impact of the end of milk quotas, which portugal opposed. we must have national and european measures, increased de minimis aid, labelling with the designation of origin of milk, defence of a free market but a fair market, a market free of dumping practices that distort its rules. we must have a tiered agreement that ends the madness of milk sales at 40 cents a litre and less at the expense of the producers. we must have an intervention in the distribution sector, which cannot abuse its dominant position to crush prices by imposing values on products for lack of alternatives for producers. the problem is detected and it's public. we shall certainly also have the good intervention of the european commission.
madam president, the crisis is in the european union, but in the azores we are facing a real catastrophe, with 60% of producers going into technical bankruptcy. that is why, commissioner, it is time to activate article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to support the outermost regions, in particular the azores. for the union, i propose three measures. firstly, compulsory and comprehensive control of supply in a situation of overproduction and market disruption. secondly, compensating producers when the price paid to them is less than the cost of production. we cannot stand by and watch this pressure on the producers. thirdly, to create a european campaign to stimulate consumption, since consumption in the european union, and globally, is declining and this trend must be reversed. commissioner, the answers we are giving are not enough. in a crisis, we need more europe, we need more cohesion, we need more solidarity, we need a europe that protects the most disadvantaged. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i think i made myself clear. firstly, i would like to see the specific article on support for the outermost regions, which is enshrined in our treaty, article 349, activated. secondly, it called for three strategies in general: a strategy of compulsory control of production in crisis situations, a second strategy of financial support for producers who cannot be pressured in the way they are and who sell milk at prices below production costs, and a third strategy of encouraging consumption at european level. i think there are three very clear strategies.
the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. but it's not enough. the big monopoly capital wants more and the objective of deepening integration into the single market and contributing to structural reforms, read the liquidation of the social functions of the state and labour rights, is explicit. the proposal is to link it with the juncker plan, which serves the interests of high finance and large companies and which favours public-private partnerships by injecting public money into the financial system, or with ttip, which would liquidate thousands of smes and deepen the attack on workers' labour and social rights. the report also stresses the importance of risk capital and the creation of financial products such as securities, which were at the origin of the 2008 financial crisis, as evidence that the single market does not serve the sovereign development of the member states, let alone the interests of the people and workers. the claim that 'equal work, equal pay, same place' undermines the single market, in the rationale that led to the yellow card for the revision of the posting of workers directive, is revealing of how the latter has promoted the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe, increasing inequalities, exclusion and poverty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs comi on her report. it is an important contribution to the improvement of the single market. it sets out a set of measures vital for a stronger, fairer, consumer-centred market for the 21st century. i would remind you, as the commissioner has already done, that, alongside schengen, the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union, which european citizens feel in their daily lives and which has completely transformed the way we trade, consume and move around within the european area. the potential of this market of over 500 million consumers is not fully exploited. potential efficiency gains of €615 billion are estimated from further integration of the single market. however, obstacles to the free movement of goods and services persist, such as unjustified non-tariff regulatory requirements and several member states not applying part of the important legislation in force. there is also a persistent distrust of cross-border contracts by consumers and some digital illiteracy. all this represents unnecessary waste to the real economy and hinders further growth and job creation. i therefore welcome the results achieved, in particular the emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, the strong investment in market digitalisation and the fight against geo-blocking, the optimisation of the single digital portal, the initiatives in the sharing economy and the improvements in public procurement. finally, i would stress the urgency of the product safety and market surveillance package, which is blocked in the council, and the urgency for member states to ensure the proper application of the services directive.
‒ virtual currencies represent a technology with undeniable potential, but which lacks further elaboration, and does not yet guarantee that it can be considered a currency with all its prerogatives. the report is balanced and seeks to avoid giving a false message of total reassurance to potential users of this new instrument. since the concept of the blockchain was created, many currencies have been created and many have died. many more are yet to be born. others were forced to close down for providing cover for illegal activities. we are still living in a period of uncertainty. doubts remain about the limited or even finite nature of the money supply, at least in the current form of mining. there are lingering doubts about his still very volatile character. the report, in essence, adequately reflects these doubts and limitations of virtual currencies. it points out shortcomings and recognises the need to monitor this phenomenon, which is already attracting the interest of major economic groups. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology can make a positive contribution to citizens' well-being and economic development, particularly in the financial sector. it is therefore necessary to strengthen regulatory capacity, including technical capacity, and to develop a robust legal framework that keeps pace with innovation, ensuring a timely and proportionate response if and when the use of some applications of distributed ledger technology becomes systemically important. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the technology of virtual currency is booming. i recognise the hypothetical benefits of virtual currencies for the economy, including increased speed and efficiency and reduced costs when making payments and transfers, in particular internationally, and their potential to promote financial inclusion and facilitate access to finance and financial resources for the business sector and smes. however, virtual currencies may carry risks related to criminal activities such as terrorist financing, money laundering and tax fraud and evasion, among others. it is important to highlight that holders of virtual currency are vulnerable to illegal activities and challenges such as fraud, theft of virtual currency, cybercrime, computer piracy, software/hardware malfunctions, fraudulent systems and fraud, false claims or misrepresentation, and it is vital to ensure an adequate level of protection and redress for consumers who may encounter certain risks associated with the use of virtual currencies. i am voting in favour of this report which calls for the creation of a working group to study the advantages, disadvantages and vulnerabilities of virtual currencies in order to ensure consumer protection, transparency and confidence in their use and in the financial system.
‒ virtual currencies represent a technology with undeniable potential, but which lacks further elaboration, and does not yet guarantee that it can be considered as a currency with all its prerogatives. the report is balanced and seeks to avoid giving a false message of total reassurance to potential users of this new instrument. since the concept of the blockchain was created, many currencies have been created and many have died. many more are yet to be born. others were forced to close down for providing cover for illegal activities. we are still living in a period of uncertainty. doubts remain about the limited or even finite nature of the money supply, at least in the current form of mining. there are lingering doubts about his still very volatile character. the report, in essence, adequately reflects these doubts and limitations of virtual currencies. it points out shortcomings and recognises the need to monitor this phenomenon, which is already attracting the interest of major economic groups.
‒ the use of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology is now having a significant impact on the financial sector. those instruments contribute to citizens' well-being and economic development, in particular by reducing transaction costs and protecting users' privacy. however, virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology present risks, such as legal uncertainty and high volatility associated with their use, the propensity for the formation of speculative bubbles and the potential to stimulate the shadow economy and criminal activities. the use of distributed ledger technology outside the payments and financial sector is further exacerbating these contingencies. in my view, the report on virtual currencies provides an appropriate response to these risks by advocating the strengthening of smart regulation and the development of a sound and proportionate legal framework, and by promoting the creation of a working group with a budget, staff and skills to increase the benefits and prevent the risks of using distributed ledger technology. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
‒ the main opportunities of virtual currencies are related to reduced transaction costs and ease of use, while providing resilience and varying levels of privacy protection. many of the potential of this technology is likely to extend beyond the payments sector. however, virtual currencies and the underlying ledger technology carry risks that will only become clearer as their use becomes more widespread. some of those risks have already become apparent, for example the misuse of certain applications for criminal activities, including money laundering and terrorist financing. the smooth functioning and resilience of these systems must be ensured on the basis of sound governance and oversight structures. in addition, consumer protection issues are likely to be relevant in a number of applications. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ this own-initiative report on virtual currency and distributed ledger technology - a technique for organizing digital records into blocks, cryptographically and chronologically linked in a chain, using complex mathematical algorithms, in which all transactions are recorded - at all nodes in the network. this new technique will allow any banking transaction to be recorded in a decentralised manner, while maintaining the privacy/security of the data and preventing its alteration or tampering. it also has the advantage of being made by anyone, anywhere in the world, without a minimum/maximum value limit or intermediaries. nevertheless, there are some risks associated with virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology, namely phishing, as well as the possibility of money laundering or terrorist financing. this is why it is important to ensure functional and efficient regulatory structures and effective monitoring/supervision mechanisms. overall, i consider this to be a good first report on this subject, the implementation of which could bring benefits to consumers, businesses and the economy in general, contributing to the improvement of money transfers and thus contributing positively to the development of the digital single market, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ virtual currencies are undoubtedly a promising technology, but there is no guarantee that they can be considered a currency with all its privileges. in this sense, we think that the report is balanced and seeks to avoid giving a false message of total reassurance to potential users of this new instrument. since the concept of the blockchain was created, many currencies have been created and many have died and many more are yet to be born. others were forced to close down for providing cover for illegal activities. we are still living in a period of uncertainty. doubts persist about the limited or even finite nature of the money supply, at least in the current form of mining. there are lingering doubts about his still very volatile character. we therefore support the report which points out these shortcomings, but recognizes the need to monitor this phenomenon which is already attracting the interest of major economic groups.
‒ i support the jäätteenmäki report which will allow the use of eur 58 146,800 from the globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market 2 132 workers made redundant by moryglobal sas. these redundancies are associated with the general decline in physical production in europe, which has resulted in a decrease in the volumes transported and a price war in the road transport sector, causing a steady reduction in operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france since 2007, followed by a wave of bankruptcies. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
in writing. ‒ mory-ducros was the second largest operator in the land transport and pipeline transport sector in france, operating between 4 and 500 vehicles per day. from 2008, road transport by vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes decreased in the eu and france. the bank of france estimates that the number of bankruptcies in the sector increased by 35% per year between 2007 and 2013. the bankruptcy of mory-ducros was declared in november 2013. the liquidation procedures have been initiated. arcole industries, the main shareholder, an investment company specialising in companies in difficulty, submitted a bid for the acquisition of mory-ducros, submitting a 'social plan' for its employees. a new company was created, mory-global, which took over part of the mory-ducros business and rehired only half of the workers, despite many talks with the unions and the french government. the unions continued their struggle and 200 workers were reinstated. the liquidation of mory-global was declared in early 2015. however, the court noted that the shareholder appeared to have lost interest in the mory-global restructuring project and its sustainability. the unions are accusing arcole industries of willful underinvestment. what a shame. capitalism in all its glory.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france, which submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the whole of metropolitan france in the economic sector classified under nace revision 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) and division 52 (storage and transport auxiliary activities), where it is expected that 2 132 redundant workers eligible for the egf will participate in the measures. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the application of france for the egf relates to the mobilisation of a total of € 6 052 200 of the financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under nace revision 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) and division 52 (storage and transport auxiliary activities) in metropolitan france, where it is expected that 2132 redundant workers eligible for the egf will participate in the measures. i support the mobilisation of this financial envelope to cover the shortfalls in the road freight transport sector. this situation is also due, among other things, to the global economic and financial crisis which caused road freight transport to decline in european economic activity by 13,7% and in the particular case of france by 21% between 2007 and 2012 (eurostat).
‒ after the 2008 crisis, road transport by heavy goods vehicles fell by 13.7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. the bank of france estimates that the number of bankruptcies in the sector increased by 35% per year between 2007 and 2013. mory-ducros was the second largest operator in the terrestrial transport sector and in the oil and gas pipeline transport sector in france. it went bankrupt in november 2013 and liquidation proceedings were initiated. it was acquired by arcole industries, which presented a 'social plan' for its workers. he created the company mory-global, which took over part of the mory-ducros business and rehired only half of its workers, 200 workers having been reintegrated subsequently. the liquidation of mory-global was declared in early 2015. the commercial court noted that the shareholder seemed to have lost interest in the mory-global restructuring project and its sustainability and that arcole industries had run into difficulties, having withdrawn eur 7,5 million from mory-global to finance the so-called mory-ducros social plan. it has received 17 million euros in state support and the unions accuse it of intentional underinvestment. an example of how capital serves its own interests by compromising the interests of workers and countries. we voted in favour.
‒ as a mechanism designed to provide support to workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed for cases such as that of moryglobal sas. the transport sector has been one of the hardest hit by the successive global economic and financial crises of the 21st century. in france, the sector has a particularly significant economic weight, as a result of the privileged geographical location of the gauls in the european economic area. the dismissal of 2 132 workers from moryglobal sas - a serious social consequence of the crisis referred to above - therefore justifies the mobilisation of the egf. in order to support the 2132 european citizens who find themselves in this precarious situation and to ensure that they benefit from such relevant measures as access to counselling services and training aimed at re-entering the labour market, i am voting in favour of adopting the report.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of france following 2 132 redundancies nationwide in the land transport, oil and gas pipeline transport, storage and transport-related activities, as a result of the court-ordered liquidation of mory global. the analysis carried out showed that the application met the conditions for allocating the funds provided for in the eagf regulation, and i therefore voted in favour of allocating a financial contribution of eur 5 146 800 to france - corresponding to 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures - with the aim of channelling this support to measures with real added value, with a view to the future, but intended to be short, reintegration of the workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on 7 april 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into employment of workers made redundant by moryglobal sas in the sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) and division 52 (storage and transport auxiliary activities) in 22 departments (départements) of metropolitan france. this is the fourth application to be assessed under the 2016 budget and the third for the inland transport and pipeline transport sector, and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 146 800 from the egf for france. the application covers the dismissal of 2 132 workers. we still have doubts about this instrument. we are sensitive to the plight of the workers, but we understand that the underlying issues of the economy must be attacked and not just pour funds on these companies.
‒ i support the riyadh report, which will allow the use of eur 6 468 000 from the globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market 557 workers made redundant by the larissa supermarket company and 543 targeted young people who are not working, studying or in training. the dismissals were caused by the bankruptcy and closure of the stores of the cooperative supermarket larissa, due to the fall in the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
‒ larissa supermarkets is a cooperative of small grocery stores (retail sector) formed in 1986, which had 42 stores and about 600 employees in greece. it is noted that 'the successful development of the cooperative was interrupted by the economic and financial crisis'. gradually, they had to close stores in 2014, followed by the closure of the company and subsequent layoffs in 2015, when the court ruled on the bankruptcy petition. this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 6 468 000 is intended to support the 557 displaced workers and 543 young people without a job who are not in training or studying (neets). brutal decline in family income, drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals, colossal decline in gdp since 2008, decline in public and private consumption, increase in unemployment, wage cuts (- 30%) - these are some of the immediate causes of this tragedy. this report goes a step further than usual, calling on the european commission to provide more detail in future proposals on the sectors in which workers are most likely to find employment and to undertake a comprehensive data collection, including data on the quality of jobs found and the rate of reintegration achieved through the egf.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which applied for egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 47 ('retail markets other than motor vehicles and motorcycles') in the nuts level 2 regions of central macedonia and thessaly, and which is expected to involve 557 redundant workers and 543 young people under 30 years of age who are not in employment, education or training.
‒ regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the application of greece for egf assistance relates to the mobilisation of a total of € 6 468 000 of the financial contribution from the egf, following the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company supermarket larissa, operating in the economic sector classified in nace revision 2 division 47 (retail markets other than motor vehicles and motorcycles), in the regions of central macedonia (κεντρική μακεδονία) (el12) and thessaly (θεσσαλία) (el14), at nuts level 2. i am voting in favour of this report which is a measure to support 557 dismissed workers, of whom 194 are men and 363 are women. in addition, 543 young people under 30 who are unemployed, in education or training in the same field can receive personalised services such as career guidance under the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ larissa supermarkets is a cooperative of small grocery stores (retail sector) formed in 1986, which had 42 stores in greece and about 600 employees in greece. as the commission itself pointed out, 'the successful development of the cooperative was interrupted by the economic and financial crisis'. gradually, they had to close stores in 2014, followed by the closure of the company and subsequent layoffs in 2015, when the court ruled on the bankruptcy petition. this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 6 468 000 is intended to support the 557 displaced workers and 543 young people who are not in employment, training or education (neets) who will be involved in the measures put in place. austerity measures such as wage cuts (- 30%) have not prevented the closure of companies like larissa, another dramatic result of the continuing pressure from creditors on greece and the european austerity policy. we voted in favour.
‒ as a mechanism designed to provide support to workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed for cases such as the one at abee's larissa supermarket. in the context of the successive global economic and financial crises of the 21st century, greek households have experienced a sharp decline in purchasing power and a drastic reduction in access to credit. the impact of the crisis has obviously extended to the greek business community, and in particular to the retail sector. this report concerns a proposal for a decision to support, by mobilising the egf, 557 workers made redundant by supermarket larissa abee, of whom 543 are in the so-called neet situation, i.e. under 30 years of age, not in employment, education or training. i would like to stress the need to comply with the rules of the egf regulation, particularly article 7, and the fact that this is a situation of manifest eligibility, and considering the importance of the re-entry of these citizens into the labour market, i am voting in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ bearing in mind the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) objective of providing additional support to workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, greece - the fifth country examined under the 2016 budget - submitted an application for a financial contribution of eur 6 468 000 to deal with the redundancies of 557 workers in the company 'supermarket larissa', operating in the retail markets sector in the regions of central macedonia and thessaly. the conditions for the granting of the financial contribution from the eagf are fulfilled and, taking into account that this application is intended to provide guidance, training, retraining and vocational training for workers made redundant, as well as to contribute to the creation of businesses and to grant participation, training and mobility grants - all of which are active labour market measures as provided for in the eagf - i give my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by supermarket larissa. this is the fifth application examined under the 2016 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 468 000 from the egf for greece. this concerns 557 workers made redundant and 543 young people not in employment, education or training (neets). the greek authorities state that the dismissals were caused by the bankruptcy and closure of the stores of the cooperative supermarket larissa, due to the fall in the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals. the commission has concluded, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application qualifies for a financial contribution from the egf. we still have doubts about this instrument. we are sensitive to the plight of the workers, but we understand that the underlying issues of the economy must be attacked and not just pour funds on these companies.
‒ in this particular case, according to the report, gianluca bonano is not responsible for any criminal conduct or illegal act. he's been receiving threatening phone calls. he is a member of the enf group. article 4 of italian law no 140 of 20 june 2003 on immunities in italy states that, where the competent authority wishes to have records of calls and telephone conversations, it must obtain authorisation from the body in which the member is elected. as such, the waiver of immunity is requested so that the investigation can be conducted into who is the author of the threatening phone calls. we are faced with a simple case in which no reason is seen to prevent the waiver of immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli ordinary court submitted a request for authorisation to acquire data from telephone companies relating to the records of telephone calls to the number used by a member of the european parliament elected by italy, namely gianluca buonanno, in the context of a criminal case brought before the vercelli common court on behalf of that member in relation to telephone threats allegedly received on 14 april 2015 from an unknown person to his mobile phone number. since such a request would not be necessary in this case, i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ considering that the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr gianluca buonanno concerns access by the responsible authority to the record of telephone calls received by the mobile phone number of that member on the date on which he claims to have received telephone calls in which threats were made, i vote in favour of this report which lifts the immunity of the member, thus enabling the responsible authorities to investigate any existing infringements.
‒ the elements allow the gianluca buonanno is not responsible for any criminal conduct or illegal act. he's been the target of a threatening phone call and he wants his investigation to proceed. article 4 of italian law no 140 of 20 june 2003 on immunities in italy states that, where the competent authority wishes to have records of calls and telephone conversations, it must obtain authorisation from the body in which the member of parliament is elected. as such, the waiver of immunity is requested so that the investigation can be conducted into who is the author of the threatening phone calls. we voted yes.
‒ this report concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr gianluca buonanno. the request was made in the context of a court case in which an italian public prosecutor asked a telephone company to record calls to the number used by the member of the european parliament who had allegedly been the victim of telephone threats. article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy the immunities accorded to members of their national parliaments. at the same time, article 68 of the italian constitution states that no member may be subject to a personal inspection. the report states that article 9 of protocol no 7 is not applicable to the present case, since this provision is only intended to ensure the independence of members by preventing pressure being exerted on them during parliamentary sessions. the report stresses, however, that it is not for the european parliament to interpret national rules on the privileges and immunities of members. therefore, considering that the ad cautelam reply contained in the report is appropriate to protect the status of members of the european parliament, without hindering the action of the italian judicial system, i am voting in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or actions in the exercise of the duties of mr gianlucca buonanno as a member of the european parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr gianluca buonanno. the request was made by the assistant public prosecutor of the vercelli ordinary court concerning the records of telephone calls to the mobile phone number used by gianluca buonanno, and relates to a criminal case brought before the vercelli common court, in which the member of the european parliament claims to have received on 14 april 2015 threatening telephone calls from an unknown person to that telephone number. as described in the report, in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union - which is to ensure the independence of members by preventing pressure, consisting of threats of arrest or prosecution, being exerted on them during the sessions of the european parliament - i believe that in this case there is no doubt that the member in question is not subject to the pressure described above, as the case concerns alleged threats reported by the mep himself as the victim of these telephone threats. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - apparently, gianluca buonanno is not responsible for any kind of criminal conduct or illegal act. he's been receiving threatening phone calls. he is a member of the enf. article 4 of italian law no 140 of 20 june 2003 on immunities in italy states that, where the competent authority wishes to have records of calls and telephone conversations, it must obtain authorisation from the body in which the member of parliament is elected. as such, the waiver of immunity is requested so that the investigation can be conducted into who is the author of the threatening phone calls. as this is a simple case in which immunity should be waived, we vote in favour.
in the light of the recent developments in the eu, the commission has proposed that the eu should continue to support the development of the eu's external relations, in particular in the field of security and defence. it therefore proposes that sweden be exempted from participation in the relocation scheme. the rapporteur proposes that this proposal be rejected. we share this view, but unfortunately it was not adopted in the final vote, but was adopted in favour of the european commission's proposal. that is why we voted against. we note that the swedish delegation of our group does not agree with the arguments of the european commission and has voted against its proposal. the european commission says that sweden has done more than most other member states to protect refugees and that no other member state has more asylum applications per capita than sweden. in this respect, sweden has been one of the main examples for the other member states. however, given the deteriorating situation of asylum seekers in greece, all member states should fulfil their commitment to solidarity and responsibility-sharing and therefore no member state should be suspended from its relocation obligation.
‒ sweden is facing an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals into its territory. therefore, the current migration situation in sweden is unique in the eu and the pressure on its capacity to process applications for international protection and to ensure adequate reception conditions for persons in clear need of international protection requires the temporary suspension of sweden's obligations under the relocation mechanism and the provision of operational support, where appropriate. in order to help sweden better cope with an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals to its territory, the proposed decision suspends sweden's obligations as a member state of relocation under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 for a period of one year. sweden shall continue to be obliged to relocate 1 369 persons from italy and greece on its territory pursuant to council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and 4 358 persons from italy and greece pursuant to council decision (eu) 2015/1601 after the expiry of this decision. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december, sweden formally requested the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 due to the fact that it is facing an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals into its territory following a sharp change in migratory flows. the considerable increase in irregular border crossings into the european union, and secondary movements across europe, has led to a sharp increase in the number of applicants for international protection in sweden, most of whom entered the eu via italy and greece. sweden registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu in 2015 (11 503 applications per million inhabitants). this situation has put pressure on the swedish asylum system, with serious practical consequences on the ground, in terms of reception conditions and the capacity of the asylum system to deal with these applications. i shall vote in favour of this report because of what it says and because it is designed to ensure that sweden has the support it needs to deal with this emergency situation.
the european commission proposes to suspend sweden's asylum obligations in the context of the refugee crisis, as it is 'doubly penalised' for hosting refugees and being a relocation destination. it therefore proposes that sweden be exempted from participation in the relocation scheme. the rapporteur believes that sweden has been an example in welcoming refugees and that it should continue to do so. at a time when the conditions of hundreds of thousands of refugees arriving on european soil are deteriorating beyond all imagining, and the humanitarian crisis is worsening as a direct consequence of the european union's policies, we support the concern expressed in the rejection amendment, which considers it unacceptable that member states are abdicating their responsibility to give dignified welcome to the thousands of refugees and migrants fleeing hunger, poverty, war, conflicts resulting from the policy of aggression and interference in countries, particularly in north africa and the middle east, for which the eu and its member states have direct responsibilities. we therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment and against the commission proposal.
‒ the current migration crisis affects the various member states with different intensities. in this context, sweden is currently facing an emergency situation characterized by a sudden influx of nationals from other countries. sweden is by far the member state with the highest number of asylum applications per capita, and has at the same time recorded an increase in asylum applications from unaccompanied minors and therefore in need of special assistance. the commission has therefore decided to submit a proposal to the council for a decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection in favour of sweden, suspending its obligations as a member state of relocation and determining the granting of operational support to sweden in accordance with article 78 (3) tfeu, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and in compliance with the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am convinced that only quality integration will be able to cope with the increase in migratory flows without jeopardizing the stability of the european asylum system. i therefore support the adoption of the commission proposal to the council, with the amendments tabled by parliament.
the commission proposal aims to establish provisional measures in favour of sweden in the field of international protection. sweden bases its request on the argument that it is facing an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals into its territory due to a sharp change in migratory flows. the rapporteur is of the opinion that sweden has not reached this state of emergency. the european parliament supported the commission's proposal.
‒ sweden registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in 2015. it is therefore necessary to support this member state in not putting too much pressure on the swedish asylum system, as this could of course have serious practical consequences on the ground, particularly with regard to reception conditions and the capacity of the asylum system to cope with the complications caused by this unforeseen influx. the purpose of the council decision is to suspend sweden's obligations as a member state with regard to the relocation of refugee nationals for a period of one year in order to help sweden deal with the emergency situation it has been experiencing with regard to the sudden influx of third country nationals who have arrived en masse on its territory. in addition, operational support coordinated by the european asylum support office (easo) and, if necessary, other relevant european agencies is also provided. i voted in favour of this report because, as this is a very sensitive subject, with very complex contours and obvious cross-border implications, i think it deserves the solidarity and support of the other member states and, of course, of the european parliament.
‒ the draft report takes into account that sweden has done more than most other member states to protect refugees and that no other member state has more asylum applications per capita than sweden. in this respect, sweden has been one of the main examples for the other member states. however, given the deteriorating situation of asylum seekers in greece, all member states should fulfil their commitment to solidarity and responsibility-sharing and therefore no member state should be exempted from its relocation obligation. at the same time, it should be considered that sweden should not be obliged to relocate unaccompanied minors due to the exceptionally high number of unaccompanied minors already in sweden. the commission notes that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the fact that the austrian authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken into account the facts available.
in writing. these motions for resolutions follow the decision of the court of justice of the eu of 6 october 2015 which declared the european commission decision 2000/520/ec, known as the safe harbor agreement, invalid on the grounds that it had clear implications for changing the rules on the transfer of personal data from the eu to the us. in a context where negotiations are under way on transatlantic free trade agreements (for example, ttip and tisa), the issue of data transfer is all the more important as rights such as the privacy of citizens are at stake, but also the commercialisation of data and the internal security of states. these motions for resolutions put the handling of this issue on a supranational level, between the european commission and the united states of america, subordinating the member states and, with that, the imperative need to deal with this issue sovereignly and democratically in each country, in accordance with its legitimate interests. the resolutions do not address a wide range of concerns regarding the protection of personal data. the amendments tabled by our group were partly intended to fill these gaps. unfortunately, they were rejected. that is why we are voting against it.
‒ protecting data means protecting the persons to whom the information processed relates, and such protection is one of the fundamental rights recognised by the union (article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights and article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). the protection of personal data, respect for private life and communications, the right to security, the right to receive and impart information and the freedom to set up and manage businesses are fundamental rights that must be respected and balanced. the eu-us privacy shield agreement should be consistent with eu primary and secondary law and with the relevant judgments of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in view of the development of the information society and electronic commerce, there has been an exponential increase in the circulation of electronic data and communications, as well as in the risks associated with the misuse of such data and the interception of such communications. these abuses not only hinder the development of electronic commerce by undermining consumer confidence, but also constitute a violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree with the views expressed on the efforts made by the commission and the us administration to achieve substantial improvements under the privacy shield compared to the safe harbor decision. however, i cannot but express concern that the privacy shield agreement may not fully comply with the requirements of the charter, the directive, the general data protection regulation and the judgments of the court of justice and the european court of human rights in this area. despite the importance of transatlantic trade and cooperation, of legal certainty for data subjects and data controllers, i believe that safeguarding fundamental rights, including the rights to data protection and privacy, is fundamental.
‒ these motions for resolutions follow the decision of the court of justice of 6 october 2015 which declared the european commission decision 2000/520/ec, known as the safe harbour agreement, invalid on the grounds that it had obvious implications for changing the rules on the transfer of personal data from the eu to the usa. in a context where negotiations are under way on transatlantic free trade agreements (for example, ttip and tisa), the issue of data transfer is all the more important because rights such as the privacy of citizens, but also the commercialisation of data and the internal security of states are at stake. these motions for resolutions put the handling of this issue on a supranational level, between the european commission and the united states of america, subordinating the member states and, therefore, the urgent need to deal with this issue, sovereignly and democratically, in each country in accordance with its legitimate interests and national defence. we therefore voted against.
in writing. the increasing volume of data and electronic communications, a natural corollary of today's information society, underlines the relevance of the transatlantic relations established between the us and the eu. the report on transatlantic data flows states that in the context of the abovementioned relationships, it is important to safeguard the right of consumers to the protection of their data, enshrined in the fundamental rights recognised by the union in articles 8 of the charter of fundamental rights and 16 of the tfeu. i therefore believe that the protection of citizens' data should be ensured not only within the european economic area but also in third countries to which data are transferred, in accordance with directive 95/46/ec. in this particular case, relations between the us and the eu generate the largest flow of data in the world, and legal certainty in the transfer of this data is therefore of the utmost importance to guaranteeing consumer confidence, the development of transatlantic business and cooperation between the judicial forces of these two western powers. it is precisely because this is a report which stresses the need to improve the us-eu privacy shield, without prejudice to the urgent need to promote transatlantic relations, that i am voting in favour of its adoption.
‒ this resolution highlights the importance of transatlantic cooperation in the field of data transfer, but also underlines the need to safeguard fundamental rights, including the right to data protection and privacy. the commission has also identified a number of concerns regarding the complexity of the redress mechanism for individuals under the privacy shield; the insufficient penalty measures for possible violations; the lack of change in the legal situation regarding mass surveillance by us agencies outside the us and of foreigners inside the us; the lack of an assessment by the commission of the rights of eu citizens when their data is transferred by a us data controller to us law enforcement agencies.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the protection of personal data in the european union and the united states of america. indeed, transatlantic relations remain vital for both partners on both sides of the atlantic - especially business/economic relations - and the need for a comprehensive, appropriate and effective data protection and privacy solution is urgently needed to achieve what is one of the eu's fundamental objectives: the protection of personal data. the recently announced privacy shield legislation package by the european commission, replacing the previous eu-us safe harbor data protection regime invalidated in 2015 by the court of justice of the european union, was the result of a broad dialogue between (and within) the eu and the united states. because it brings substantial improvements over the previous system, but because the resolution considers it to be a 'process of joint and permanent construction' - an idea with which i agree - i voted in favour of this report.
‒ in a context where negotiations are under way on transatlantic free trade agreements (for example, ttip and tisa), the issue of data transfer is all the more important because rights such as the privacy of citizens, but also the commercialisation of data and the internal security of states are at stake. these motions for resolutions follow the court of justice's decision of 6 october 2015 finding the european commission's decision 2000/520/ec, known as the safe harbour agreement, invalid on the grounds that it had obvious implications for changing the rules on the transfer of personal data from the eu to the us. these motions for resolutions put the handling of this issue on a supranational level, between the european commission and the united states of america, subordinating the member states and thereby the imperative need to deal with this issue, sovereignly and democratically, in each country, in accordance with its legitimate interests and national defence. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on transatlantic data transfer, because i understand that, in the framework of the data transfer agreement with the us, the eu will respect the protection of the personal data of european citizens. i would stress that the european socialist group has successfully fought to bring the privacy shield agreement into line with eu primary and secondary law and with the relevant judgments of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights.
‒ the ongoing energy transition must translate into a more efficient, transparent, sustainable, competitive, stable energy system that benefits society as a whole and contributes to the increased participation of citizens and communities at local and regional level. despite progress, the objective of the third energy package to establish a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved in all member states of the union. in this connection, i stress the need to implement the third energy package, particularly as regards the right to change energy supplier free of charge and better information to consumers about their rights, and to have independent and up-to-date price comparison tools. on the other hand, it is essential that all websites and all billing systems are fully accessible to persons with disabilities. the commission also notes that the processing and storage of energy-related data of citizens must be managed by entities that comply with the eu's existing regulatory framework on privacy and data protection. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report is part of a vision of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector. this is a view which the report accepts without question. it therefore ignores the whole process of dismantling and privatising the companies which traditionally provided, in a vertical way, and under a state monopoly, the activities of production (in the case of electricity), transport, distribution and marketing of energy. the centralization of national or regional energy systems, the public and universal access to energy, can be classified as a civilizational achievement of the european peoples. this was a situation which allowed planning and operation to be optimized to meet consumer needs, including in the field of renewable energy. it would have many advantages, for example, because it would not lead to the multiplication of production and transport structures, it would avoid the enormous difficulties of managing the system that arise today, it would guarantee the correct and rational use of resources and the adoption of the best energy efficiency measures. it is technically and economically unacceptable that the spraying of small-scale production and the geographical remoteness of production from consumption contribute to the efficiency of energy systems, particularly in electricity. locally produced electricity as a small business can never compete economically with centralised generation systems and therefore will only be viable when subsidised by consumers or taxpayers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that energy is an essential commodity which should be in the public domain. this report aims to create a new framework for the energy market to protect its consumers. demanding citizens' access to a stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy supply; the protection of consumers from abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices by market players; consumers' clear and transparent access to information on energy bills, allowing for switching operators where necessary. the report also promotes the participation of citizens in the production, consumption, storage or sale of their own renewable energy, by becoming active participants in this sector. finally, this own-initiative document presents a set of measures that will contribute to the eradication of energy poverty, based on the idea that access to affordable energy is a basic social right.
‒ this report focuses exclusively on the new framework for household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition. industrial consumers should be treated differently. the ultimate goal should be to achieve an economy based on the full application of the principle of 'energy efficiency/fuel first' and prioritising energy saving and demand-side measures over supply-side measures in order to achieve our climate goals, in particular the 1.5°c target set in the paris agreement and the goals of energy security, competitiveness and in particular reducing consumer bills. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report is about the new framework for domestic energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, which is a shift from a traditional centralised energy system to a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system. i believe that citizens should have access to stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and ensure that products, services and buildings are of high quality and energy efficient. i also believe that it is essential to strengthen coordination at eu level in order to combat energy poverty by sharing best practice between member states and guaranteeing access to affordable energy as a basic social right. i am voting in favour of this report but would like to stress that this new configuration of the electricity market should give consumers more choice and better control over their participation in a fully functional and efficient energy market.
‒ this report is part of a vision of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector. this is a view which the report accepts without question. it therefore ignores the whole process of dismantling and privatising the companies which traditionally provided, in a vertical way, and under a state monopoly, the activities of production (in the case of electricity), transport, distribution and marketing of energy. the centralisation of national or regional energy systems and the public and universal access to energy can be classified as a civilization achievement of the european peoples. this was a situation which allowed planning and operation to be optimized to meet consumer needs, including in the field of renewable energy. it would have many advantages, for example, because it would not lead to the multiplication of production and transport structures, it would avoid the enormous difficulties of managing the system that arise today, it would ensure the correct and rational use of resources and the adoption of the best energy efficiency measures. it is technically and economically unacceptable that the spraying of small-scale production and the geographical remoteness of production from consumption contribute to the efficiency of energy systems, particularly in electricity. locally produced electricity as a small business can never compete economically with centralised generation systems and therefore will only be viable when subsidised by consumers or taxpayers.
‒ in order to achieve the goals set out in the paris agreement, the new deal for energy consumers presented by the commission has postulated the need for a more decentralised and flexible energy system based on renewable sources. in this context, the report on the creation of a new framework for energy consumers underlines the importance of a retail energy system that provides consumers with sustainable and affordable energy. it is not too much to mention the recommendation to create a one-stop shop and price comparison platforms. at the same time, the report advocates an inclusive energy system, respecting the multiple intergenerational interests, enabling consumers to produce, consume, store and sell their own energy, with a view to becoming energy self-sufficient. finally, and more importantly, the document stresses the importance of a properly regulated energy system characterised by transparency and fair competition. i therefore believe that only an energy system adapted to today's social market economy will be able to lower energy prices, encourage innovation and promote sustainable development, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the ongoing energy transition must translate into a move away from an energy system based on traditional centralised production towards a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system. the energy union should have the interests of current and future generations of citizens at its core and should also:- provide citizens with a stable, affordable, efficient, sustainable and quality energy supply;- enable citizens to produce, consume, store or sell their own energy from renewable sources, individually or collectively, to take energy saving measures and to become active participants in the energy market through consumer choice; - contribute to eradicating the causes of energy poverty;- protect consumers from abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices of market participants so that they can fully exercise their rights;- create conditions that favour the smooth functioning and competitiveness of an internal energy market that offers consumers choices and provides them with clear and transparent access to information.
‒ the european commission's communication on 'a new framework for energy consumers' aims to make the energy union a reality by highlighting the role of citizens at the heart of the concerns and objectives of this large internal energy market, with the ultimate aim of reducing their energy bill. the proposed new framework is based on three pillars: consumer empowerment, smart homes and networks, and finally good data management and protection. this report builds on that communication and argues that the eu should move away from a centralised system of energy production towards a more decentralised, flexible and renewable energy-based system. this third energy package aims to provide a truly competitive and consumer-friendly energy consumption market. i therefore support the ideas in the report on the need to support consumers in the desired energy transition and in the production of energy itself, with a view to achieving a more efficient grid. i therefore supported this report, which puts the interests of consumers at the heart of the system, along the lines of the new framework described in the energy union strategy.
in writing. ‒ the report is in line with the energy union, making references throughout to deeply negative aspects, including the dubious concept of 'producers' and 'consumers', through a participatory process led by the european commission and always under the banner of the competitiveness of an internal energy market. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources. it is therefore a set of rules designed to justify the mechanisms of profit accumulation by the large economic groups at the expense of consumers and the productive apparatus.
‒ i voted in favour of the griffin report because i believe it is essential to strike a balance between economic gains of competitiveness, environmental gains of sustainability and social gains of equity. we know that today more than 50 million eu citizens live in energy poverty, but we do not know the figures for each member state. knowing this data is crucial to be able to check the conformity and quality of the answers to this problem. i would particularly highlight the proposals to eliminate aggressive commercial practices for the most vulnerable, to establish social reference tariffs, to use incentive systems to encourage efficiency practices and to reduce costs. i also stress the call for more frequent, transparent and clear energy bills, so that consumers can read them more easily and avoid technical terms. i would also stress the obligation for suppliers to specify in the invoice or in an annex the contribution of each energy source to the total energy mix of the supplier in the previous year in an understandable and easily comparable way, including a reference to a source where information on the environmental impacts of co2 emissions and radioactive waste is available.
‒ the problem of poverty and social exclusion of women is a reality linked to the gender pay gap, low wages and, consequently, low pensions, and precarious work. this has been aggravated in recent years by the policies imposed by the eu/ecb/imf and implemented by the governments of the eu countries. this report highlights the persistent inequalities affecting women. it points out the efforts to be made to ensure that everyone, without distinction as to gender, including migrants, has equal opportunities in the fields of employment, social security, remuneration, education and childcare. stresses the crucial role of high-quality public services and calls on the member states to implement policies that defend, value and encourage free and quality public services; the importance of promoting work-life balance; calls on the european commission, in close liaison with the member states, to present an initiative on maternity leave, paternity leave and parental leave. the report is generally positive, with the exception of certain aspects from which we have distanced ourselves (reference to teleworking schemes, among others), which is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ equality in the labour market and the social and economic well-being achieved benefit not only women but society as a whole. i have some doubts about the content of the motion for a resolution, so i have decided to abstain.
‒ despite parliament's increased focus in recent years on the issue of poverty and social exclusion of women, the reality is that the problem persists today and we see that little has been achieved despite the efforts made. according to the latest available data on the distribution of monetary poverty and income inequality in the eu, 16.6% of the eu-28 population were considered at risk of poverty after social transfers. this risk increased to 17.2% for women, compared with 16.1% for men. these figures conceal, of course, numerous disparities between the member states. it is well known that women are on average more affected than men, especially when they are single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or disabled. i am voting in favour of this report because i support the need to strengthen the fight against domestic violence, particularly against women, to invest in improving education and training, with a view to improving access to the labour market and to combating unemployment, poverty and the social exclusion of women.
‒ the impoverishment of the people is only one of the faces of the implementation of austerity policies, memoranda, economic governance and the european semester. it is estimated that 25% of the eu-28 population is at risk of poverty before social benefits, more than 120 million citizens. policies that have exacerbated inequalities and social exclusion with a particular impact on women, which have culminated in attacks on the social role of the state, destroying and privatising public services, attacking workers' rights and collective bargaining. today, employment discrimination between men and women remains with a significant disparity between wages and pensions, discrimination in access to employment and a precariousness of employment relations that affect women more than men. the fight against social inequalities, poverty, discrimination against women and the raising of their economic and social status can only be achieved by breaking with the policies of exploitation, by valuing wages, by regulating and ensuring employment and collective hiring, by increasing the provision of free and quality public services in the areas of health, education, social security, among others. we share many of the concerns in the report, which justified the vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european objective of ensuring gender equality - rectius, as it is a manifestly unfortunate expression, equality of rights, duties and guarantees between the sexes - dates back to the 1975 treaty of rome. since then, the problem of poverty and social exclusion has been the subject of several resolutions adopted in parliament, which still have to deal with the gender gap in the risk of poverty and income inequality. the report stresses that women continue to be more affected than men, especially when they are immigrants, pensioners, disabled or single mothers. the document also identifies the causes of this disparity, considering, in my view, that the union and the member states should strive to ensure that all men and women, without distinction, have equal opportunities in the fields of employment, social security, registration, education and childcare. considering the fight against poverty as a matter of social justice and with a view to reducing inequalities in rights, duties and guarantees between the sexes, i am voting in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the economic crisis from which the union is gradually recovering has led to an increase in the number of men and women at risk of poverty and social exclusion. some 64.6 million women live in poverty compared with 57.6 million men. women work two-thirds of the total world's working hours, produce half the world's food, but earn only 10% of income and own only 1% of property. it was a difficult vote because of the opposition of many right-wing members; however, we have managed to get important messages across, such as: the use of european funds to promote women's entry and retention in the labour market; legislative initiatives towards work-life balance for women and men (maternity, paternity, parenting); guaranteeing access to health care, education and housing for children; inclusion of social indicators in the european semester; assessment by the commission of the impact of the minimum wage policy in the eu or the introduction of a national minimum pension that is never below the poverty line.
‒ the problem of poverty and social exclusion of women has been the subject of particular attention by the european parliament for several years. despite the undeniable differences that persist somewhat across the eu - such as the gender pay gap - these are unfortunately issues that are usually downplayed or forgotten in the political debate. however, poverty and social exclusion know no borders and are not closely linked to gender. that is why i believe that we should have poverty reduction strategies that are more targeted at the most vulnerable age groups, such as children and the elderly, and in social groups or regions with problems of prevailing poverty and where there is a need to break vicious cycles, which unfortunately persist. it is for this reason, as i said in the last paragraph, and because i agree with the absolute need to combat and prevent poverty in the eu, that i abstained in the final vote on this report.
‒ the problem of poverty and social exclusion of women is a reality linked to the gender pay gap, low wages and, consequently, low pensions. in addition, there is precarious work, which has been aggravated over the last four years by the policies imposed by the troika and which has particularly affected women. despite the negative aspects contained in the report, such as the advocacy of the introduction of work regimes such as teleworking, individual and non-transferable parental leave rights or access to credit and financial advisory services to promote female entrepreneurship, we think that, in general, it is a good characterisation of the situation and calls for effective policies that dignify work and the social functions of the state.
‒ i voted in favour of the arena report, as i believe that it contains crucial elements for combating the phenomenon of 'feminization of poverty'. i would stress the call on the member states and the commission to take action to combat all forms of multiple discrimination based on sex, to ensure the application of the principle of non-discrimination and equality in the labour market and in access to employment, and in particular to adopt social protection measures to ensure that women's pay and social benefits, including pensions, are equal to those of men with the same or similar experience doing the same work or work of equal value. these measures are essential to promote the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the occupational field. i also stress the proposal that makes it compulsory for companies to submit equality plans, including actions to eliminate segregation, the design of pay systems and measures to support women's careers.
‒ alongside schengen, the single market is indeed one of the great achievements of the european union that citizens feel in their daily lives, especially through businesses and smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. however, twenty years after the creation of the single market, barriers to this flow remain. one of the main complaints, alongside the vat regulation, is the existence of non-tariff barriers, such as national technical rules and regulatory and non-regulatory requirements, unjustifiably applied to products, service providers and conditions of service provision, which burden companies operating on the market. i support the dalton report because it considers these costs unnecessary and a waste for the real economy of businesses, with the consumer being the most harmed in the end, as he is denied access to the national markets of new entrants, his choice is limited and products become more expensive. i would like to stress the importance of member states respecting existing rules on the single market, not creating rules supplementing the proposed directives, and i welcome the single digital gateway initiative announced by the commission and the improvement of the functioning of the solvit network.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. among other things, the report states that: - 'urgent action is needed to put an end to non-tariff barriers'; - 'the abolition of non-tariff barriers shall not imply a limitation of workers' rights, if such rights are not discriminatory, disproportionate or based on a legitimate public policy objective'; - "in cases where the ec repeals unnecessary eu legislation, member states should act swiftly to repeal the corresponding national provisions"; - 'a culture of compliance should be promoted through cooperation between the ec and the member states, as already provided for in the single market strategy'; - 'urgently resolve the issue of non-compliance by member states'; - "persistent national differences in regulation unnecessarily force companies to adapt their products and services to meet multiple standards or repeated testing, thus limiting intra-eu trade, reducing growth and hindering job creation"; - "the low number of crossborder public procurement is a problem"; - "the ec must take a firmer approach to non-compliance with the law". this is unacceptable. we voted against it.
‒ the creation of the single market is a major achievement, made possible by cooperation and a shared objective of eliminating barriers to trade across the european union. tariff barriers were successfully removed almost 50 years ago, but it is the ongoing challenge of eliminating non-tariff barriers that is currently driving our single market initiatives. this situation reflects in many ways the latest innovations in international trade, where tariffs are more easily fought, but the elimination of non-tariff barriers (ntbs) is the ultimate goal. the abolition of gnp will help businesses across the eu, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the creation of the single market has led to the removal of barriers to trade across the eu. although tariff barriers have been removed for almost 50 years, the challenge today is to eliminate non-tariff barriers (ntbs), which are due to the variety of national regulations that a company may encounter when seeking to trade cross-border or provide services in another member state, meaning that the situation on the ground may be identical to the types of barriers they may encounter when trading outside the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that not all gnp should be abolished. the principle of subsidiarity and respect for multi-level governance mean that there will always be a degree of national variation in regulatory practices and public policies. i am voting in favour of this report because, for the proper functioning of the single market, i am in favour of eliminating gnp which is contrary to the principles of proportionality or non-discrimination, or which is not based on a legitimate public policy objective. the abolition of gnp will help businesses across the eu, but especially consumers, as they will benefit from lower prices and greater choice.
‒ this is another report which continues the reflection on the single market and the absolute need to limit any restrictions which may still exist on the free movement of goods and services. it is therefore not surprising that it proposes: the end of non-tariff barriers; the openness and accessibility of member states to their regulatory requirements; deregulation as a means of attracting foreign investment; further harmonisation, particularly in the digital single market, of existing regulation at national level in the member states; further structural reforms in the context of the european semester; the destruction of the social functions of the state, public services and privatisations; in short, the promotion of attacks on workers' rights, exacerbating social inequalities, labour deregulation, the devaluation of wages and the precariousness of work. we therefore voted against.
‒ the removal of barriers to trade and the creation of the european single market are examples of the success of eu action. the single market has boosted the competitiveness of european firms, encouraged joint demand and contributed to an increase in consumer surpluses through a general decline in prices. despite the progressive removal of tariff barriers, the elimination of non-tariff barriers is still an unfinished project. the different national regulations and technical requirements which a company faces when trading cross-border or providing services in another member state constitute barriers to trade which are, in practice, no different from the obstacles imposed outside the european economic area. although it admits a certain degree of discretion in the regulatory practices and public policies pursued by the member states, the report advocates - and rightly so - a change of mindset towards a gradual move away from protectionist measures, often of a sectoral nature. the document also suggests the abolition of non-tariff barriers which are contrary to the principles of proportionality, non-discrimination and the pursuit of the public interest. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ 20 years after the creation of the single market, some non-tariff barriers (national technical rules and requirements for products and service providers) continue to hamper trade between member states. the report analyses the barriers still faced by businesses operating across borders and proposes measures to remove them, arguing that they can constitute an obstacle to the single market and growth. it is not recommended that all of them should be removed, as the principle of subsidiarity and respect for the practice of multi-level governance must be safeguarded, as must the right to legislate in the public interest. however, there are barriers of this kind which are contrary to the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination. these are the ones which must be removed for the sake of the functioning of the single market, especially those with a more protectionist bent. consumers will be the main beneficiaries of greater market opening.
‒ the elimination of tariff barriers, successfully removed in 1968, 18 months earlier than the treaty of rome had provided, is one of the main achievements of the european union (then the eec). the main challenge facing the single market today is the elimination of non-tariff barriers to intra-community trade and their link with the protection of the internal market. this report draws attention to some of the non-tariff barriers, particularly technical barriers, to trade in the internal market. i agree with the rapporteur that some of the measures to avoid the use of non-tariff barriers need to be improved so that the single market can function effectively and fulfil its full potential - as stated in the recently adopted single market strategy. the aim is an increasingly open and competitive single market, and this requires that member states avoid adopting protectionist measures and that some of the current non-tariff barriers be removed in order to bring greater benefits to businesses and, above all, to consumers, who will naturally benefit from a wider choice of goods and services at a lower price. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ we accept as valid the principle that prices cannot be compared without taking into account the specific conditions under which production takes place. what we do not accept is that this principle should serve to undermine social and environmental rights, often won through hard struggles of the people and the workers. we also do not accept that this principle should prevent national governments from setting standards to promote local and regional production. non-tariff barriers are the spearhead of those who want to impose free trade by force and without regard to the specificities of countries and regions and often without regard to their own history. in this sense, we view with great reservations any attempt to set targets for the reduction of these so-called non-tariff barriers, putting everything in the same bag and flattening out local and cultural specificities.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of customs union, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the dalton report to include the following areas: among the various recommendations put forward to reduce the negative impact of non-tariff measures, i would highlight the 'single digital gateway' initiative and the call on the commission to create a one-stop shop for businesses and consumers to deal with single market-related aspects, including the provision of information and assistance, problem-solving and national and european procedures necessary to carry out cross-border transactions in the european union.
in writing. ‒ three decades of the single market have given rise to capitalist concentration and centralisation in favour of monopoly groups, to the dismantling of instruments for the sovereign regulation of economies, to privatisations and liberalisations of strategic sectors and public services. but big monopoly capital wants more: deepening of the market, structural reforms (read: liquidation of the social functions of the state and of social and labour rights). the proposal is to link this with the juncker plan, which serves the interests of high finance and large companies and which favours public-private partnerships by injecting public resources into the financial system. or with ttip, which would liquidate thousands of smes and further attack the labour and social rights of workers. the risk capital and financial products that were at the origin of the 2008 financial crisis are valued. the single market does not serve the interests of workers and peoples. it interferes with the sovereign development of states. it has promoted a lowering of living and working conditions in europe, increasing inequalities, exclusion and poverty. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ this report focuses its strategy on aspects aimed at helping businesses, in particular smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups, to scale up, expand and remain in the single market, thus facilitating innovation and job creation. i am voting in favour of this report, which, in addition to supporting greater integration of businesses into the single market, is also in favour of the obligation to identify the origin of products, thus increasing information for consumers. i also believe that it is essential for the european union to look at the future of the digital single market, in particular how best to create a european ecosystem to support startups, to look at how best companies can operate in the sharing economy and to increase european competitiveness also through trade agreements that will be established.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years of the single market have meant the acceleration of the process of capitalist concentration and accumulation in favour of monopoly groups, the dismantling of instruments at the service of member states' sovereign regulation of economies, privatisations and the liberalisation of strategic sectors and public services, the harmonisation of legislation. but it's not enough. the big monopoly capitalists want more, and the explicit aim is to deepen the integration of the single market and to contribute to structural reforms, i.e. the liquidation of the social functions of the state and labour rights. the single market has eclipsed such propagandized concepts as convergence, cooperation and solidarity, deepening neoliberalism. in its name and in the name of the famous 'competitiveness', the attack on workers' rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, wage devaluation and the precariousness of work have been promoted and more redistributive and fairer tax policies have been destroyed or opposed. it serves capitalist aims of further deepening the concentration of wealth in the great powers and economic groups, it makes deregulation, liberalisation and exploitation the norm in the economies of the member states, imposing a single socioeconomic model on the peoples and workers which is contrary to their interests, rights and legitimate aspirations. we voted against it.
‒ the single market is one of the main pillars of european integration, providing a driver for sustainable growth, stimulating job creation, facilitating trade between member states and ensuring a highly competitive economy. the report on the single market strategy states that progress in recent years has opened up possibilities for improvement in a number of areas. in this context, the document is particularly focused on supporting the growth and proliferation of start-ups, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in a more open, innovative and deeper european single market, in particular through the focus on the digital sector and the promotion of global supply chains. without prejudice to the obligations of economic operators, in particular with regard to product labelling and geographical indication, the report stresses the importance of the european single market for the european project. i therefore vote in favour of this report, considering that, in accordance with article 3 of the tfeu, the union must achieve a genuine single market and regard it as a common good of all european citizens.
‒ the european parliament can make a significant contribution to making the single market strategy more ambitious by deepening it and making it more innovative. the group of the european socialists has succeeded in negotiating the introduction of many measures relating to sustainable growth, job creation, social inclusion, consumer protection, territorial cohesion, environmental concerns, protection and incentives for smes, administrative cost relief; tax justice and the fight against tax evasion and fraud, health and safety at work, the qualification of workers, etc.
‒ the completion of the single market is one of the main objectives of the european integration process. however, in recent years the global economic, financial and business environment has changed dramatically and the challenges are becoming more significant, with a considerable impact on the internal market. significant progress has been made in recent years, but the current situation calls for an even more pragmatic and incisive approach. the report proposes measures such as a vat action plan, a legislative proposal on the insolvency of companies, the creation of a service passport and a legislative initiative to prevent discrimination against consumers on grounds of nationality or country of residence. these are concrete measures which will certainly have a direct impact and a leverage effect on the market and on the strengthening of consumer protection. in order to achieve a more modern, innovative and fair single market, policy priorities should be to strengthen business competitiveness, improve budget implementation, better regulation and strengthen consumer protection. in fact, this work must be continued in a rapid and effective manner, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ these mechanisms, such as the single market, accentuate the dismantling of the instruments for the sovereign regulation of economies, promote economic dominance and cause divergence and development asymmetries. they also promote tax evasion and tax avoidance, profit shifting to tax havens, privatisation, deregulation of trade relations and capital concentration. the single market has eclipsed such propagandized concepts as convergence, cooperation and solidarity, deepening neoliberalism. in its name and in the name of the famous competitiveness, the attack on workers' rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, the devaluation of wages and the precariousness of work have been promoted, and more redistributive and fairer tax policies have been destroyed or opposed. the european commission, citing pretended concerns such as the absence of growth, high levels of unemployment, the inability to finance smes and very low levels of investment, is mixing and matching, launching the single market strategy. unlike most people, we firmly reject it. it serves capitalist aims of further deepening the concentration of wealth in the great powers and economic groups, it makes deregulation, liberalisation and exploitation the norm in the economies of the member states, imposing a single socioeconomic model on the peoples and workers, contrary to their interests, rights and legitimate aspirations.
‒ i voted in favour of the comi report which presents a new holistic vision of the european single market based on the social green market economy and knowledge, seeking to unlock the full potential of the single market for the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses. i would remind you that the single market has been subject to many positive developments in recent years, but that it could improve in almost all areas, especially in the digital sector, in improving the mobility and social rights of workers and in encouraging start-up companies. i would stress the proposals put forward by the european socialist group to strengthen the removal of unjustified obstacles to the single market in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in terms of sustainable growth, research, innovation, job creation, especially among young people, consumer choice and competitiveness. i would remind you that in order to achieve these objectives, efforts must be made to further harmonise european legislation where necessary and appropriate, while ensuring the highest possible level of consumer protection.
it is a fact that enormous progress has been made in the fight against the human immunodeficiency virus, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out. today, nearly 16 million people are on antiretroviral medication, which is equivalent to a reduction of about 35 percent in new infections compared to the year 2000. and the drop in hiv-related deaths since the peak of the epidemic is 42 percent. however, different data show that much more needs to be done if we are to restore dignity and quality of life to all those living with hiv. the data show that some 22 million people still lack access to adequate medication and that half of all virus carriers are unaware of their real situation. ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this new millennium, we cannot allow inequities in the response to hiv to persist. ending the aids epidemic by the 20s and 30s is a difficult but achievable goal today. to this end, we must be able to put in place, already in the next five years, a coordinated and comprehensive strategy based on a number of key pillars that give priority to the joint mobilisation of funding and the anticipation of the investments needed in the fight against hiv, with particular attention to the countries with the greatest fragility in their health systems and to the groups most at risk of infection, as well as the assumption that the prevention element is absolutely paradigmatic in the fight against hiv and therefore more resources should be allocated to it. commissioner, only through an integrated and comprehensive approach can we achieve a virtuous cycle of progress in this fight and for this reason i would like to commend the initiative of the united nations, hoping that the european union can also join forces to achieve this millennium development goal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without real coherence in development policy, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development will remain on paper. and trade policy is one of the crucial areas for testing this policy coherence. the trade agreements that the union is negotiating around the world need to be aligned with the new sustainable development goals and include strong sustainable development chapters. the commission must also fulfil its promise to carry out a study of the potential impacts on developing countries before any agreement is concluded. and you must report to this parliament on aid to trade for developing countries. what i ask the commission is whether it can assure us that these concerns are already being taken into account in the union's trade negotiations, including the most important ones, the ttip with the united states of america and the trade agreement with japan.
mr president, let me say that in 2015 there were 12 areas defined as priority by the european union for development, ranging from trade to migration, from health to gender issues. unfortunately, education and culture are not covered, which says a lot about our objectives. the truth is that our attention has been focused on banking, finance and the troika of this world and little has been paid to what is the beginning and the end of europe: the people. there is a legal responsibility for the impact of european policies on developing countries. yet we have not been able to correct inconsistent policies that would eradicate, for example, world poverty. in europe, austerity has increased the number of poor and unemployed. the coherence of these policies must be a coordinated and sustained political commitment internally and externally, but there are so many inconsistencies! for example, agricultural protectionism, which leaves africa to fend for itself, in trade, in migration, in finance with illicit capital flight.
commissioner, i think it is essential that the priorities and policies of the countries and regions are taken into account in the elaboration of the european union's development strategy. we cannot take paternalistic positions in defining the models by which third countries should be governed. it is essential not to torpedo the creation and emergence of indigenous production capacities. it is important to ensure that developing countries are not left to the detriment of the surplus products produced by our economies, such as the industrial excesses resulting from ultra-liberal policies introduced into our markets, of which milk is just one example. on the other hand, i call for firm action by all to implement the recent climate agreement reached at cop 21. i would stress that ocean acidification is a threat to the food security of all mankind. the main ones responsible for reversing this situation are the so-called "developed" countries and those of us who are included.
mr president, discussing policy coherence for development requires assessing the extent to which the sectoral policies of the european union contribute to the objectives it claims to pursue in the field of development aid, in particular the fight against poverty. this leads us inevitably to the conclusion that if this is a serious and rigorous exercise, many of these policies not only do not contribute but go against the good intentions proclaimed. what about the disastrous effects of the deregulation and liberalization of international trade which the european union continues to seek to impose, particularly through the so-called 'economic partnership agreements'? what about the deregulation of the financial system of tax havens that deprives developing countries of enormous revenues? what about the inhumanity of migration and asylum policies? all this without forgetting the attempt to export and impose models of economic and political organization which, in most cases, disregard the sovereignty, the needs and the legitimate choices of the developing countries. the infernal cycle of impoverishment, dependence and subordination of these countries has very concrete causes, inseparable from the nature of capitalism, which these reports rarely face head on.
commissioner, we have just celebrated the 30th anniversary of the nuclear disaster at chernobyl in belarus. and that is why the construction of a new plant on the same territory, this time in ostrovets, awakens ghosts and raises fears. and as we saw in chernobyl and fukushima, nuclear disasters are devastating, they don't respect borders, space, time. they kill thousands of people and irreversibly damage the planet. the commission has assured us that it is following the whole safety procedure and that the european citizens have no reason to be afraid. i believe you. we have to believe! but i cannot help recalling that the commission which says this is the same commission which is unable to deal with the problem of the 66% of nuclear power stations in europe which are already operating beyond their reference lifetime. the nuclear indicative programme published two months ago is very clear: to comply with the euratom directive, €330 billion is needed to close and modernise nuclear power stations and only a third of that amount is provisioned. the people protest, but the commission washes its hands. i recently asked commissioner arias cañete a number of questions about the safety of the almaraz nuclear power station in spain, near the portuguese border. in his reply the commissioner informed me that the commission is awaiting notification of the transposition of the measures of the new directive. until then, spanish law is in place, it's whoever has the license that makes sure everything works. in other words, in a plant that is operating beyond the deadline, where there have been recurrent malfunctions, the commission has no proactive action. wait and wait is not enough. so, commissioner, i believe what you have said here about the safety of the new nuclear power station being built. i would also like to believe that the commission is doing everything it can to promote the safety of these plants, of all the plants in the union. and at least in almaraz it's not!
mr president, commissioner, the safety of nuclear installations is a matter of the utmost importance, not only outside but also within the european union. let us not forget that about half the member states of the european union have nuclear power stations on their territory. the average age of reactors in operation is high, which puts us in front of requirements and risks that cannot be minimized. this is the case, for example, with the almaraz nuclear power station in spain, near the portuguese border. the need to dismantle some reactors is evident, for imperative reasons of safety and of safeguarding the health of the population and the environment. these processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring before, during and after closure, the treatment of waste, its storage and decontamination, the environmental requalification of installations, and support for the replacement of the energy production capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency.
(for technical reasons the speaker has to interrupt his speech and then the president asks him to go back to the beginning) mr president, commissioner, we must have a reciprocal attitude in terms of environmental and social requirements with regard to agro-industrial investments made in third countries. the development policy objectives we set out must be the guidelines and local communities must continue to have and decide on the options for future progress. with regard to natural resources, it is imperative to defend the ownership and preservation of heritage for the benefit of the people who depend on it. this must be possible within a well-defined regulatory framework that provides real opportunities for local communities and under the umbrella of the right to food, nutrition, property and participation. these are basic and elementary rights which should not even be the subject of a claim in our day. because we enjoy progress in europe on the material and political levels, we have an obligation to promote more and better progress in other parts of the world.
mr president, we are facing an initiative involving the g8, several multinationals, public-private partnerships through which, we are assured, millions of people in africa can be lifted out of poverty and hunger. the promoters' audacity does not hide what they are coming for: to accelerate the flow of private capital. the so-called charity of the multinationals requires political changes to make it easier for them to do business, because that is what it is all about, business as usual. this initiative is based on the assumption, not yet verified, because it is wrong, that more production through investment by large private corporations will solve the problem of hunger and malnutrition in africa. now these corporations produce for lucrative markets, not for the poor and hungry. this initiative will be a useful way of facilitating access to land and agricultural inputs for these corporations, while encouraging the change of agricultural practices in the interests of the multinationals themselves, favouring export-oriented intensive production models with a high incorporation of agrochemicals and gmos. the big question is, who's gonna pay for your profits?
madam president, international accounting standards are an important part of the european union's regulatory and supervisory framework. these standards interact with a wide range of regulatory acts of the european union on services and, in particular, in the field of prudential regulation. we follow the report on the central role of accounting standards in developing a more transparent market, more readable for the community. what we don't follow is this association of the need to improve international accounting standards with the current financial crisis. international accounting standards are important, but they cannot replace the fundamental measures required to control the world of finance, preventing this unregulated and unbridled speculation which leads to crises whose costs are always borne by the same people. that way, we don't confuse the plans for the intervention. the crisis will be resolved when there is the political will to take the necessary measures, which involve public control of the financial system and of the large oligopolies that are de facto in charge of this european union.
madam president, contrary to the prophecies of the 1990s, which heralded an era of peace, security and prosperity, we live today in a more dangerous world, with more wars, more inequality and more misery. these wars, almost always disguised as humanitarian intentions, reflect the need of rich countries to dominate the vast reserves of raw materials and thus foster corruption. africa is tired of meddling, it is tired of corrupt governments supported by multinationals with the connivance of capitalist countries. it is tired of the successive manoeuvres of interference in which arms are poured over the african continent and fratricidal wars are fomented to the satisfaction of the large multinationals of the military industrial complex. africa is crying out for a new paradigm in international relations, one based on respect for national sovereignty, respect for self-determination, the right of each people to dispose of its resources and to choose its own development model.
madam president, commissioner, in the face of successive complaints from producers who survive, those who survive, with the rope around their neck, the european commission has the peculiar and very convenient understanding that, by definition, there is no dumping in the internal market. but the truth is that products continue to appear on the shelves of supermarkets every day at impossible prices, below the production costs that devastate producers, who tend to devastate entire national production sectors. the examples are too many! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's milk production is not affected by the crisis. the truth is quite different from the version of the european commission. dumping not only exists but is inherent in the functioning of the internal market. a market tailored to the needs of the large economic groups, including those in the retail sector, and their imperial and colonizing drive, which crushes production systems and producers and contributes to the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe.
madam president, commissioner, farmers are currently suffering from a crushing price depression, with prices in some sectors, such as milk, at historically low levels. in addition to unfavourable market conditions, the relationship of farmers with industry and distribution reveals differences in terms of bargaining power, which results in lower prices for farmers. the need to ensure the disposal of their products often forces farmers to accept conditions which force them to revise their forecasts of yields downwards. european legislation is urgently needed to rebalance this relationship and guarantee a fair price to farmers. this is particularly important in regions whose production depends heavily on distribution to sell their products, such as the azores. i therefore welcome the commissioner's visit to the agricultural fair in portugal this week, where he is due to meet the president of the regional government of the azores.
madam president, innovation must be at the service of all types of farms, including those of the most modest or family size, for which the outermost regions can be a good laboratory. innovative solutions can contribute to more resource-efficient agriculture and improve the competitiveness of farmers. the text we are discussing includes references to new breeding techniques. i understand that we cannot take an obscurantist position on these, because we must and have the obligation to create an environment conducive to the development of science, but always, and i repeat, always, with powerful and very careful precautions as regards the impact on the environment and the health of people's animals. it requires more debate and more information so that we do not take too much for granted. we must not hinder the development and work of research centres in these areas, but we must be very careful in the transition to production and consumption.
madam president, the report contains positive and relevant aspects, but it ignores reality, and reality tells us that today in the western world too much food is produced, and money is paid to eliminate food products. the technology applied to agriculture today has become a problem and not some miracle solution to a problem that is political and that will only end with a new economic model of production and distribution. technology is now driving intensive production that is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet. the gmos, glyphosate, which the commission has decided to extend for another seven years, are the most illustrious offspring of this technology. we do not deny the need for further research into agricultural practices, but we also have to understand each other. agriculture subject to the laws of capitalism and the maximum accumulation of profit can only give rise to ever more intensive and productivist technologies. before we talk about technology, it is therefore important to reverse our cap, which is now completely liberalized.
madam president, innovation in agriculture requires sufficient investment in research and development and the involvement of farmers in the search for solutions and the dissemination of results. innovative solutions such as those comprising precision agriculture should be at the service of all types of farms, should present a cost/opportunity ratio proportionate to the financial capacities of the smallest farms, such as those located in more remote or outermost areas, where agriculture is an essential activity for local employment. agriculture, to feed the world, must adapt to the challenge of climate change and make rational use of available resources. to do this, we need innovative solutions based on technology and a different view of traditional practices, in the process of which farmers must be the focus, as the main actors of change and the subject of appropriate training.
madam president, after systematic threats of sanctions against portugal, the president of the european commission said a few days ago that there would be no sanctions against france, because france is france. the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, came to oppose him, but only to demand a heavy hand for everyone. this is the contribution they make to stability. while some member states are trying to do what they can to lift their economies, european leaders are doing everything in their power to keep investors nervous and citizens on the edge of a nervous breakdown. as if the disillusionment with the european project were not enough, as if the crisis of democratic legitimacy were not enough, as if the economic and social disaster that has resulted from the ideological option of austerity were not enough, as if this disaster was not the result of the austerity policy itself that prevents the achievement of the objectives, what happens is that the president of the european commission comes to tell us that after all this is not a union between equals. the problem is that the consequences are very real and very concrete and they end up being economic sabotage, a sanction in itself, but illegal, a sanction in itself, but not written. so i ask you, commissioners, to do europe a favour and punish yourselves. you deserve it!
madam president, mr juncker, mr draghi and others, please make an effort to listen carefully to what we have to say. the struggle of the portuguese workers and people has defeated the government which has diligently applied your guidelines, condemned your policies. the struggle of the portuguese workers and people has blocked a path contrary to the march of history. we have fought and won the elimination of the cuts in public administration salaries, the increase of the national minimum wage, the reduction of moderate rates in health care, the strengthening of social benefits, the unfreezing of pensions, the elimination of the surcharge on the irs, the progressive freeing of school textbooks, among many other measures. and last week the 35-hour work week was reinstated in public administration. all this is little, very little, although important. there's a lot more to come and a lot more to come. mr juncker, france is france, and it is france, but portugal is portugal, a country with over 800 years of history and a people zealous for its independence. he will be writing his own destiny with his own hands. put your beards in sauce!
mr president, the objectives of this directive are laudable. however, as is evident with each passing day, the grand design announced by the commission in 2015, at the height of the tax scandals and the fury of public opinion, is confronted with reality. in the name of pragmatism, that is to say, in the name of the hypocrisy of the governments of the countries which have created the conditions for exempting the large multinationals from paying taxes, we have today a minimalist commission proposal which does not correspond in the least to the legitimate expectations of the citizens. we therefore support the report which called for the adoption of the maximum standards within the framework of the oecd proposals, and not the other way around. we do not understand the exemption of the financial system, the commission's criteria for applying the switchover are ineffective. on the other hand, we do not see how this proposal is consistent with other proposals that are promised, such as the consolidation of the common tax base or the list of tax havens, so this directive seems to us to be more of a propaganda tool designed to give the citizens the impression that something is being done to keep everything the same.
madam president, i want to start by supporting the rapporteur's proposal on this matter and say that, obviously, one scandal after another does not exempt us from taking a strong stand because citizens continue to pay and multinationals continue to run away. mr moscovici, i therefore ask you to stand by the highest standards of care in this matter. do not praise the dutch presidency, because to say that the dutch presidency is doing very well in this matter is about the same as defending a fox guarding the henhouse. our problem is the fiscal justice we have in the european union. and i have heard colleagues from the epp say that this directive and this proposal from parliament is a proposal against the economy. no, it's not that! to tax where profits are made is not against the economy, to have tax justice is not against the economy, to tax at source is not against the economy. the economic problem is that workers and small and medium-sized enterprises continue to pay, that multinationals are fleeing and that this money is missing from health, education and everything else that is important for public accounts. that's what's against the economy.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal is a step in the right direction, but to revive the european economy, to ensure fair competition in the internal market, particularly for smes in relation to multinationals, and to ensure a minimum of tax justice, thus ending the real tax jungle that reigns in the european union, we must go further, as the luxleaks and panama papers revelations require. we need the cbcr, the ccctb, to eliminate such devices as patent boxes and, therefore, we are already proposing to reduce the limit on the deductibility of interest and to strengthen the switch-over clauses to prevent double non-taxation of dividends earned on capital and profits of companies entering the european union from third countries. it is these unfair schemes which explain why the largest portuguese companies have chosen the netherlands as their country of establishment, stealing important tax revenues from my country. the council must act. act to regain the trust of the citizens.
mr president, i think that almost ten years after the financial crisis, it is time to stop the gold-digging because the discussions we have had here, and the commissioner has tried to justify the unjustifiable, but the truth is that financial speculation remains virtually unchanged, there have been no major changes after ten years. commissioner, you talk about 50 million financial instruments and that all this is very complex, because it certainly is, which is why it needs to be regulated. there are two weights and two measures. there was no problem, all the rush of the world to punish the citizens who had no fault about the financial crisis. as regards the financial markets, we postpone, postpone, leave the market changes unchanged, the market volume unchanged, exemptions for other instruments, it is fifty million, it certainly is. we need to regulate them, financial markets have taken over our politics and our democracy. so we do not need any more excuses to continue to show the citizens that they are right not to trust the european project, because we do need to restore democracy and politics.
‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health treaty designed to respond to the tobacco epidemic and to tackle some of its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that seriously threatens public health and causes huge revenue losses for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. in this sense, the cqct protocol is the world's leading initiative in this field, containing a set of rules, measures and policies to combat illicit trade in tobacco products and to make the supply chain secure. it also aims to strengthen international cooperation, in particular through the provision of mutual administrative assistance in customs matters. i support this recommendation because ratification of the cqct protocol will be beneficial for public health and will contribute to the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
‒ illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, as it undermines tobacco control policies by increasing access to often cheaper tobacco products. in addition, estimates point to annual revenue losses for the eu and the member states of more than eur 10 billion. the sale of tobacco provides member states with tax revenues of more than eur 90 billion per year. this means that one out of every ten cigarettes is sold illegally. the protocol in question is the world's leading initiative in this field, containing a complex set of measures, rules and policies in the field of combating illicit trade in tobacco products, with which i agree.
‒ the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (ptoc protocol) needs to be ratified by 40 parties to enter into force. thus, its rapid ratification by the eu (and its member states) would make a significant contribution to the early entry into force and application of this protocol. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health and causes huge revenue losses in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally. a substantial part of illicit trafficking in tobacco products in the eu originates in third countries. the best policy option to combat this transnational phenomenon is therefore to establish an effective global regime. the protocol to the cwc is the world's leading initiative in this field, containing a complex set of measures, rules and policies in the field of combating illicit trade in tobacco products. it aims to secure the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by creating a global tracking and tracing system. we voted in favour.
‒ in addition to the loss of important revenues for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties, the illicit trade in tobacco is a criminal activity that threatens public health by tearing up public tobacco control policies by increasing easy access to cheaper tobacco products. it is essential to strengthen the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision.
‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health treaty. illicit trade in tobacco products, especially cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, as it obstructs tobacco control policies, increases access to often cheaper tobacco products and causes huge revenue losses for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. i believe that ratification of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (the ctbt protocol) will make the supply chain for tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment more secure and controlled by creating a global tracking and tracing system. i agree with the rapporteur that ratification will be beneficial for public health and will contribute to the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity that threatens public health. in addition, it causes huge revenue losses for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. estimates point to annual revenue losses for the eu and member states of over eur 10 billion. the sale of tobacco provides member states with tax revenues of more than eur 90 billion per year. one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally. the protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation (fctc) is the world's leading tobacco control initiative, aimed at securing the supply chain for tobacco and related products through the creation of a global tracking and tracing system, licensing, record-keeping requirements, regulations on internet sales, customs duties, etc. ratification of the cqct protocol (in line with the eu strategy) will benefit public health and contribute to the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health treaty, in force since 2005, designed to address the harmful effects of tobacco and to combat the illicit trade in tobacco. illicit trade in tobacco is a criminal activity that threatens public health by making it difficult to control the products that actually appear on their packaging and by making these products more accessible. in addition, there are also huge revenue losses in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. the european union signed this protocol in 2013. however, it needs to be ratified by 40 parties to enter into force, so ratification by the eu (and its member states) will make a significant contribution to its swift entry into force and application. in agreeing with the position taken by the rapporteur on the implementation of this protocol (except for the part concerning the provisions covered by title v of part iii of the tfeu, dealt with in report 0198/2016), which will contribute to improving public health and combating illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, i voted in favour.
‒ the world health organisation's protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. this protocol recognises the importance of creating an effective licensing system capable of better controlling the supply chain through the adoption by governments of measures facilitating the tracing and monitoring of products. the fight against illicit trafficking should be strengthened by international cooperation through information sharing, technical and police cooperation and mutual legal assistance. this implies the creation of a global information point in the secretariat of the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation, which should oversee the establishment of effective tracing and monitoring programmes. i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol because it calls for the creation of an action plan with new measures to combat the trade in illicit products on the european market, while at the same time establishing a criminal policy, decreeing effective investigation and punishment through the application of fines and sanctions, all in the interests of reducing the illicit trade in tobacco products at global level.
‒ illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that seriously threatens public health and causes huge revenue losses for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. estimates point to annual revenue losses for the eu and member states of over eur 10 billion. one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally. a substantial part of illicit trafficking in tobacco products in the eu originates in third countries. the best policy option to combat this transnational phenomenon is therefore to establish an effective global regime. the protocol to the cwc is the world's leading initiative in this field, containing a complex set of measures, rules and policies in the field of combating illicit trade in tobacco products. it aims to secure the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment by creating a global tracking and tracing system. we support it.
‒ the automotive industry and its ancillary industries are one of the european union's key economic sectors, employing 12 million people and accounting for 4% of eu gdp. this sector provides high value added along the whole chain and plays an important role in the euro area trade balance. in order to maintain a key position in the automotive industry, the eu must strengthen its competitiveness and preserve its global technological leadership. international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment by creating and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. the eu should support global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements, such as the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), help to reduce development, production and certification costs by avoiding duplication of administrative procedures. i therefore support this recommendation.
‒ the automotive industry and its ancillary industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, with the sector being the largest private investor in research and development. international regulatory cooperation therefore has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while creating and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ about 40% of european industry's products are manufactured from upstream imported products. industrial production is increasingly taking place within global value chains. the automotive industry and its ancillary industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the eu's aggregate gdp. it is important for upstream (notably steel and chemicals) and downstream (notably ict and mobility services) industries. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, with the sector being the largest investor in research and development. approvals granted under unece regulations shall be considered as ec approvals: this avoids duplication not only of technical requirements but also of administrative and certification procedures, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden, and thus bringing advantages to industry and national authorities. this report is not therefore opposed. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the 3rd revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted in accordance with these prescriptions ('revised 1958 agreement'). the automotive industry and its ancillary industries are a key economic sector for the eu. the sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp. it is important to remove unnecessary obstacles to trade and regulatory cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of its automotive industry and preserve its technological leadership in the world. however, the eu must support worldwide technological harmonisation so that development, production and certification costs can be reduced.
‒ the automotive and ancillary industries are a key economic sector for the european union, employing some 12 million people and accounting for 4% of eu gdp, and are one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, representing the largest private investor in research and development. i believe that the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of its automotive industry and preserve its global technological leadership by removing unnecessary barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation, with a view to strengthening a competitive and diversified industrial base. i am voting in favour of the report, considering it important to stress that international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and pro-competitive economic environment, creating high levels of health and safety protection.
‒ the automotive industry is essential to the economic sector of the european union. it accounts for 12 million jobs and contributes 4% to the eu's gdp. the eu is among the largest producers of vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. to maintain this vital position of the automotive industry, the eu must strengthen the competitiveness of its industry and preserve its technological leadership. international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection. global regulatory cooperation within the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) should be strengthened and not weakened by bilateral trade agreements.
‒ the increasing interconnection of the world market and industrial production increasingly on a global scale highlights the need for the removal of barriers to trade and regulatory cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the automobile industry is a key economic sector for the european union and a good example. the automotive sector employs 12 million people, represents 4% of the eu's gdp and makes it one of the world's largest producers. almost all member states have a link to the automotive industry, more or less directly, and it is therefore a valuable sector with an important role in the euro area trade balance. in order to maintain the industry's crucial position, the eu needs to strengthen its internal competitiveness and preserve its global technological leadership. common technical requirements, as suggested by the unece framework, help to reduce development, production and certification costs, avoiding duplication of administrative procedures and contributing to the eu's support for global technological harmonisation. international regulatory cooperation will promote economic transparency, while ensuring levels of health and safety protection, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the automotive industry and its ancillary industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp. it is important for upstream (notably steel and chemicals) and downstream (notably ict and mobility services) industries. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, with the sector being the largest investor in research and development. some 40% of the products of the european industry are manufactured from imported products. industrial production is increasingly taking place within global value chains. approvals granted under unece regulations are considered ec approvals thus avoiding duplication of not only technical requirements but also administrative and certification procedures, thus reducing red tape and thus resulting in advantages for industry and national authorities. we support it.
‒ the agreement in question liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also includes provisions on the origin of products, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement, and is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. it is quite normal that the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal measures to make this participation possible.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels in june 2012, and some of its provisions have been applied in accordance with article 330 between the eu and peru since 1 march 2013 and between the eu and colombia since 1 august 2013. the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty. the act of accession determines the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols. this is a purely legal procedure with a view to concluding the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. it is a partnership and cooperation agreement, it is part of the eu's strategy to implement its trade policy and its foreign policy, and it is intended to enshrine a free trade agreement, which we reject. despite its eminently technical nature, the objection to the basic act does not lose its weight in the assessment of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of eu accession.
‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in 2012. in view of the authorisation granted by the council to the commission to negotiate with colombia and peru with a view to concluding an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and in services. i agree with the rapporteur's position on croatia's participation in the trade agreement, as it is a natural consequence of eu accession. in view of the above, i am in favour of the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part.
‒ this is only an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, taking into account the accession of croatia to the union.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels in june 2012, and some of its provisions have been applied, in accordance with article 330 thereof, between the european union and peru since march 2013 and between the european union and colombia since august 2013. the agreement creates a common trading area between the eu and the two andean countries (recently joined by ecuador) for agricultural and industrial products and services, including provisions on the origin of products, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the participation of croatia in this trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and as such parliament approved the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in it. since this measure is a mandatory element in completing the process of ratification of the additional protocol, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty. the act of accession determines the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and certain of its provisions have been applied, in accordance with article 330 thereof, between the european union and peru since 1 march 2013 and between the european union and colombia since 1 august 2013. this is a purely legal procedure with a view to concluding the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. it is a partnership and cooperation agreement and, as a rule, the agreement to which it specifically refers is part of the european union's strategy to implement its trade policy and its foreign policy and aims to enshrine a free trade agreement, which we reject.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the commission put forward a proposal for the recognition and enforcement of decisions on property regimes of international couples, including matrimonial regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships a much-needed measure given the increased frequency of transnational couples. however, no consensus could be reached in the council, which has exclusive competence in these matters and is bound by unanimity. a total of 18 member states were therefore prepared to move forward with the measures, using the enhanced cooperation mechanism to do so. it is this enhanced cooperation which is now adopted as a purely procedural decision, insofar as it is intended only to assess the legal criteria for its use, which are uncertain, but also because parliament had already shown its agreement with the substance of the commitment previously reached. i therefore support this report.
‒ the commission presented new proposals for an act through the enhanced cooperation mechanism at the beginning of 2016, based on the content of the previously obtained commitment. enhanced cooperation should be an option of last resort when the objectives of the cooperation in question cannot be achieved within a reasonable time by the union as a whole; must respect the treaties and union law; it must promote the achievement of the union's objectives, safeguard its interests and strengthen its integration process; and it must not undermine the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion.
‒ the recommendation suggests enhanced cooperation between member states on family law, specifically on the property regime of international couples. this international cooperation in the eu area was requested by 17 member states, one of which was portugal. participating member states shall continue to be able to make use of their law, in particular with regard to registered partnerships and same-sex marriages. in 2007, about 300 000 international marriages were celebrated in the eu and about 500 000 international marriages were dissolved (by divorce or the death of one of the spouses). citizens today face different practical problems with the management of property regimes when they are in an international marriage or partnership. it is usually very difficult for people to know which courts have jurisdiction and which laws apply to their personal situation and to the situation of their property. as a result of this problem, they face unintended and disadvantageous consequences, not only in the day-to-day management of their assets, but also when the couple separates or a member of the couple dies. strengthening cooperation in this area will bring some advantages. the rights of non-participating member states with regard to the priority of application of their national law shall be safeguarded. we voted in favour.
‒ the decision to use enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property regimes of international couples was taken in 2011 and parliament gave its favourable opinion in 2013. enhanced cooperation was considered the ideal solution and the commission presented new proposals for an act through the enhanced cooperation mechanism in 2016: option of last resort; respect for the treaties and union law; promote the achievement of the union's objectives and not undermine the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion. i believe that this enhanced cooperation in the area of the property rights of international couples is in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens.
‒ the substance of this recommendation is to recommend enhanced cooperation between member states in the area of family law, specifically the property regime of international couples. today, citizens face different practical problems with the management of property regimes when they are in an international marriage or partnership. strengthening cooperation in the area of jurisdiction as regards the applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property regimes of international couples, covering both matrimonial regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships, will bring benefits to citizens in line with the recommendation: - treating the property regimes of couples coherently under a single applicable law and by a single authority; - allowing international couples to choose the law applicable to their property;- increasing legal certainty for international couples by applying the law of the state with which the couple has the closest connection;- allowing citizens to have several proceedings handled by the same court and thus avoiding parallel proceedings and conflicting judicial decisions;- improving predictability for international couples by simplifying the procedures for the recognition and enforcement of decisions and the circulation of authentic instruments throughout the eu; we voted in favour.
‒ this enhanced cooperation in the field of the property rights of international couples is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens. i would point out that 'enhanced cooperation' is an option of last resort, applicable when the objectives of the cooperation in question cannot be achieved within a reasonable period by the union as a whole and provided that at least nine member states participate in the cooperation. in this case, 23.
‒ enhanced cooperation between the member states of the european union was considered the ideal solution, as 23 of the 28 member states agreed to adopt these two acts. the commission presented, at the beginning of 2016, new proposals for legislative acts in the area of family law through the enhanced cooperation mechanism, based on the content of the previously obtained commitment. enhanced cooperation must meet a number of conditions, the most important of which are: respect for the treaties and the acquis communautaire, as well as for the competences, rights and obligations of non-participating member states, while promoting the achievement of the union's objectives and safeguarding its interests, while strengthening the integration process; not undermining the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion, nor constituting a restriction or discrimination on trade between member states; and, finally, not distorting competition between them. the acts to be adopted shall not infringe the rights of non-participating member states and shall not affect the internal market. this enhanced cooperation in the area of the property rights of international couples is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the substance of this recommendation is to recommend enhanced cooperation between member states in the area of family law, specifically the property regime of international couples. this international cooperation in the union area was requested by only 17 member states, one of which is portugal. the participating member states continue to be able to use their law, in particular with regard to registered partnerships (a figure that i doubt exists in portugal) and same-sex marriages, to safeguard the rights of these specific citizens, who are the subject of different legal systems. strengthening cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on property regimes of international couples, covering both matrimonial regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships, will bring citizens a number of benefits, which we support.
‒ illicit tobacco trafficking is a phenomenon observed in large parts of the globe. the fight against it must therefore also be carried out on a world scale. this protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organization fills precisely this gap. a concerted approach is needed, particularly in the classification of crimes and in preventive administrative measures, such as vessel control. the protocol also aims to encourage judicial and police cooperation in this field. now, according to the treaties, parliament needs to give its consent to the signing and ratification of international instruments such as this protocol. it stands, given your consent, that i support it.
‒ the world health organisation's protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products should be ratified by the european union immediately, as it provides for the elimination of all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products and the development of additional provisions to deal with the supply chain of illicit tobacco products. those provisions include, inter alia, licensing, record-keeping requirements and rules on internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. i voted in favour.
‒ the stated objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and related to the production, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. in order to address this issue, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through the adoption of a series of measures by governments and requires the establishment, within five years of its entry into force, of a tracking and tracing system. this implies the creation of a global information sharing point located in the secretariat of the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, which will oversee the establishment of national and regional tracking and tracing systems. the protocol will also aim to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of valid information, technical and police cooperation and mutual assistance in administrative and legal matters. we voted in favour.
‒ in addition to the loss of important revenues for the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties, the illicit trade in tobacco is a criminal activity that threatens public health by tearing up public tobacco control policies by increasing easy access to cheaper tobacco products. it is essential to strengthen the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision.
‒ the world health organisation's protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products and targets the tobacco supply chain through the adoption of a series of measures by governments and requires the establishment, within five years of its entry into force, of a tracking and tracing system. the protocol will define the infringements, the issue of liability, the payments resulting from the seizure and the disposal of the seized products, and will encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the sharing of valid information, technical and police cooperation and mutual assistance in administrative and legal matters. in view of the above, i am in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol.
‒ the stated objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and related to the production, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. in order to address this issue, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through the adoption of a series of measures by governments and requires the establishment, within five years of its entry into force, of a tracking and tracing system. this implies the creation of a global information sharing point, located in the secretariat of the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, which will oversee the establishment of national and regional tracking and tracing systems. the protocol will also aim to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of valid information, technical and police cooperation and mutual assistance in administrative and legal matters. we voted in favour.
‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health agreement and aims to respond to the global tobacco epidemic by addressing the root causes, namely illicit trade in tobacco products. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. i voted in favour.
‒ the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products (any practice or behaviour prohibited by law and related to the production, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products). this implies strengthening international cooperation, information sharing, technical and police cooperation and mutual administrative and legal assistance, as well as the supervision of national and regional product tracking and tracing systems. the tobacco industry has a responsibility to act effectively and to combat the illicit trade in its products in an unequivocal manner. the protocol recognises the irreconcilable conflict between the interests of the tobacco industry and the interests of public health and sets out specific obligations with regard to the tobacco industry.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 189b of the treaty. this protocol addresses the chain of production and sale of tobacco products through the adoption by governments of measures concerning the development of additional provisions to deal with illicit tobacco products. the report, which is aware of the existence of illicit trade in tobacco products, deals with the part of the protocol relating to the fight against this criminal offence, defining offences and addressing the issue of liability and payments arising from seizure and disposal of the seized products. in addition, this protocol will encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of valid information, technical and police cooperation and mutual assistance in administrative and legal matters. the tobacco industry has a responsibility to act effectively and to combat the illicit trade in its products in an unequivocal manner. as i said earlier, i voted in favour of this report (which relates exclusively to the provisions covered by title v of part iii of the tfeu).
‒ the stated objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any practice or conduct prohibited by law and related to the production, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. in order to address this issue, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through the adoption of a series of measures by governments and requires the establishment, within five years of its entry into force, of a tracking and tracing system. this implies the creation of a global information sharing point, located in the secretariat of the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, which will oversee the establishment of national and regional tracking and tracing systems. the protocol will also aim to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of valid information, technical and police cooperation and mutual assistance in administrative and legal matters. we support it.
‒ the new regulation on this subject requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with financial instrument reference data that describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument covered by that directive. to this end, a new data collection infrastructure is being developed to enable efficient and harmonised data collection. the proposed amendments are in line with the guidelines proposed by the competent authorities.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for a directive amending the markets in financial instruments directive, which is aimed only at amending specific dates of the basic directive. the criticisms we have occasionally made of the basic directive and which led us to vote against it remain entirely intact. these amendments do not touch on the essential point, which is the very existence of these markets and their instruments. they keep intact the 'financialisation' of the economy and all productive activity as a central part of the eu's development strategy, always seeking to satisfy the profit rates of the large economic and financial groups, which the production of real goods and services could not and cannot satisfy. this is the strategy of this instrument, which is inseparable from the existence of tax havens, the increasing crushing of public spending and investment, the privatisation and liberalisation of public services and of undertakings essential for economic and social development. for these reasons, i vote against.
‒ the eu-wide financial instruments market has been assuming an increasing importance due to the investment needs that exist at the european level. i am voting in favour of this proposal because i consider it essential to deepen the european market in financial instruments, provided that the products and their derivatives do not create problems for the various economies of the member states.
‒ text only (due to collection and processing of reference data) with a view to postponing the date on which member states have to apply the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu and the date on which the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec takes effect for a period of 12 months, until 3 january 2018.
‒ this report concerns a draft legislative resolution to amend directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments by laying down requirements on the authorisation and functioning of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. this new framework requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with reference data on financial instruments covered by that directive and to describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument. the new data collection structure, which is currently being developed, will allow for an efficient and harmonised collection of data, although its completion is only expected after january 2017, when member states are to apply the measures transposing the directive. given the implications of the lack of a data collection infrastructure for the overall application of the markets in financial instruments directive, it is necessary and justified to extend the period until the full framework is implemented in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid possible market disruption. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ these amendments do not alter the essential question, which is the very existence of these markets and their instruments. they keep intact the 'financialisation' of the economy and all productive activity as its hostage, as a central part of the eu's development strategy, always seeking to satisfy the profit rates of the large economic and financial groups, which the production of real goods and services could not and cannot satisfy. this is the strategy of this instrument, which is inseparable from the existence of tax havens, the increasing contraction of public spending and investment, the privatisation and liberalisation of public services and of undertakings essential for economic and social development.
‒ the date of application of the regulation has been postponed by 30 months from the date of entry into force. despite this unusually long period, stakeholders are not in a position to ensure that the necessary data infrastructures are in place and operational by 3 january 2017. this is due to the amount and complexity of data to be collected and processed in order for the new framework to become operational, in particular with regard to transaction reporting, transparency calculations and reporting of positions in commodity derivatives. i agree with the amendments proposed so that the regulation can be effective.
in writing. ‒ this report and the accompanying report refer to proposals for directives amending the markets in financial instruments directive and related regulations, aimed solely at amending specific dates of the basic legislation. the criticisms we have occasionally made of the basic acts and which led us to vote against them remain. these amendments do not touch on the essential point, which is the very existence of these markets and their instruments. they keep intact the 'financialisation' of the economy and all productive activity as its hostage, as a central part of the eu's development strategy, always seeking to satisfy the profit rates of the large economic and financial groups, which the production of real goods and services could not and cannot satisfy. this is the strategy of this instrument, which is inseparable from the existence of tax havens, the increasing crushing of public spending and investment, the privatisation and liberalisation of public services and of undertakings essential for economic and social development. for these reasons, i vote against.
‒ investment firms often execute, for their own account or on behalf of their clients, transactions in derivatives and other financial instruments or assets that include a set of linked and conditional transactions. i am voting in favour of this report, which aims at greater aggregation of data. in the absence of data, trading venues and investment firms shall not be able to report transactions to the competent authorities. in the absence of the reporting of commodity derivative positions, it will be very difficult to impose limits on positions in commodity derivative contracts. without position reporting, the ability to effectively detect breaches of position limits will be limited.
in writing. ‒ amendment of the text only with a view to postponing the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 by 12 months, until 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ this report, like the previous one, concerns the need to extend the deadline for the application of a regulation in the specific case of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments by a period of 12 months, (until 3 january 2018), as well as the other supplementary reports and analyses, takes into account the need to complete the operational applications concerning the establishment of the data collection infrastructures. only through this new financial instrument reference data system, which will be created from scratch, will it be possible, inter alia, to carry out operations such as transaction reporting, transparency calculations and reporting of positions in commodity derivatives. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ these amendments do not alter the essential question, which is the very existence of these markets and their instruments. they keep intact the 'financialisation' of the economy and all productive activity as its hostage, as a central part of the eu's development strategy, always seeking to satisfy the profit rates of the large economic and financial groups, which the production of real goods and services could not and cannot satisfy. this is the strategy of this instrument, which is inseparable from the existence of tax havens, the increasing contraction of public spending and investment, the privatisation and liberalisation of public services and of undertakings essential for economic and social development.
‒ the committee on budgetary control has heard the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors and has given a favourable opinion on the appointment of rimantas šadžius to the post. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following the opinion in favour of the nominee's nomination, i cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ given that the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of candidate rimantas šadžius with regard to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following the hearing at its meeting on 23 may 2016, i am in favour of the council nominating rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr rimantas sadzius as a member of the court of auditors, as the candidate has shown, at the hearing held by the committee on budgetary control, that he has the appropriate professional skills and experience to perform these duties. following the council's proposal, we have seen that the selection process was carried out in a transparent manner, so i have no objection to this appointment.
‒ no comments on personality and skills. we have only our deepest reservations about a body which is at the service of an integration process which we condemn.
‒ through policy coherence in a development perspective, the union seeks to take development objectives into account in all policies that may affect developing countries, thereby minimising contradictions and generating synergies between its different policies, so as to benefit those countries and increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. in the context of the eu's fifth biennial report on the cfp, the european parliament is once again proposing a set of concrete recommendations in the areas of trade and finance, food security, climate change and migration, in the light of the recent refugee crisis in europe. i support the dan preda report and the recommendations it makes, and only with a coherent and strong cooperation policy can we achieve the new goals of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
‒ the council conclusions on the commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd), adopted in october 2015, highlighted that pcd will be an important element of the eu's contribution to achieving the broader objective of policy coherence for sustainable development. while the union has repeatedly reaffirmed its political commitment to the cfp, the challenge remains as to how to deliver this commitment in practice. in addition to taking stock of the progress reported by the european commission and identifying areas for improvement in eu mechanisms for cpd, this report aims to stimulate debate on the future of this concept at union level.
‒ this report analyses the european commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd). it covers trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security, with a focus on eu foreign policy in the context of the refugee crisis. by defending just principles and objectives, such as the fight against poverty and exclusion, it ends up giving an excessive, not innocent or neutral, focus to the private sector in areas such as health and education services, the promotion and protection of children's rights or the promotion of gender equality. the report makes no reference to the instruments which promote the cycle of increasing impoverishment, dependence and subordination of the developing countries, and to the asymmetrical interdependence relations typical of globalised capitalism, which generate unequal development on a global scale. this is the case with the external debt. official development assistance is crucial and should increase, even in line with commitments. but it's not enough. it does not hide the disastrous effects of trade liberalization, deregulation of the financial system, tax havens, etc., nor does it forget the attempt to export and impose models of economic and political organization which do not respect the sovereignty, the needs and the legitimate choices of developing countries.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development. the european union should take the lead in promoting policy coherence for development (pcd), as it is a key element in the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda. we must move towards sustainable development and poverty eradication. the european parliament has a very important role in promoting the dpc, placing it high on its agenda, encouraging the exchange of views with partner countries and promoting dialogue with civil society.
‒ the commission's fifth biennial report on the cpd highlighted that policy coherence for development (pcd) will be an important eu contribution to the wider objective of policy coherence for sustainable development (pcds). the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a new challenge for the achievement of the sdg, as it sets out a single and universal set of development goals applicable to all. i believe that the eu should take the lead in promoting cpd and that the current european development framework lacks effective mechanisms to prevent and correct inconsistencies resulting from eu policies. it is important to stress that the sustainable development goals concern both developed and developing countries and should be incorporated into the union's decision-making process, both internally and externally. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the union's external policy should be given priority in the face of the refugee crisis and the instability in the union's neighbourhood, which is putting at risk the very foundations of the union itself, such as european solidarity and the schengen system, and making external action a priority area in the context of the cfsp.
in writing. previous european parliament reports have played a central role in promoting the concept of policy coherence for development (pcd), declaring this to be a matter for which parliament is politically responsible (as a co-legislator and democratically elected institution) and putting forward concrete proposals for the practical implementation of the concept at eu level. in addition to taking stock of the progress reported by the european commission and identifying areas for improvement of eu mechanisms on cpd, this report aims to stimulate debate on the future of this concept at union level, with a view to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. some of the priority areas are migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender issues or security. as also expected, there was some controversy over references to sexual and reproductive rights, the approach to the refugee issue, the role of the private sector and the use of military means to implement humanitarian development policies. the socialist group has succeeded in introducing amendments which reflect its values and has also reached balanced agreements. despite the difficulties in implementing the cfp, the eu should strive to achieve more synergies between its policies.
‒ the commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (dpc) of august 2015 includes the specific objective 'improving policy coherence for sustainable development'. the dpc is an important part of the eu's contribution to achieving the goal of policy coherence for sustainable and inclusive development. although the eu has frequently reaffirmed its political commitment to dpc, the challenge it still faces is how to deliver on this commitment. given that the refugee crisis and instability in the union's neighbourhood are creating serious (internal) political problems for the union itself, external action and, in particular, the edf (european development fund) are indispensable instruments for the proper implementation of the csf and for addressing these new challenges facing the union. this report aims to take stock of progress made, identify areas for improvement and existing mechanisms in the eu on cpd and encourage debate on the future of this concept, and should therefore take the lead in promoting a universal agenda in this area that puts this concept at the service of sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and lack access to health, education and living conditions. this requires action, but it must be consistent and coherent. i would argue that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a priority. the 17 universal and indivisible sustainable development goals set out in the agenda need to be achieved. as recognised in 15 of these objectives, when addressing the most deprived territories we cannot take a paternalistic position, where we define what models others should follow. it is also essential not to torpedo the creation and emergence of indigenous production capacities and it is important to ensure that developing countries are not left to dump the products overproduced by our economies. on the other hand, i call for firm action by all to implement the recent climate agreement reached at cop21. the so-called developed countries must act and thus prevent the increase of asymmetries and suffering. i think this report sums up the problem well and includes the strategic instruments for implementing many solutions. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ it is important to assess the extent to which the sectoral policies of the european union contribute to the objectives it claims to pursue in the field of development aid, in particular the fight against poverty. the truth is that many of these policies not only do not contribute but go against the good intentions proclaimed. moreover, the deregulation and liberalisation of international trade which the european union continues to seek to impose through the so-called 'economic partnership agreements' in practice only fosters and perpetuates underdevelopment. all this, not to mention the attempt to export and impose models of economic and political organization, which most often disregard the sovereignty, the needs and the legitimate choices of the developing countries. the infernal cycle of impoverishment, dependence and subordination of these countries has causes, inseparable from the nature of capitalism, which these reports rarely face head on.
‒ i voted in favour of the preda report because i believe that, despite the difficulties in implementing policy coherence for development, the eu should make an effort to ensure more synergies between its policies as reflected in this report. i would remind you that policy coherence for development is fundamental to the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda. this requires the development of governance processes that promote it not only within european law but also at international level. i would stress the need for the european socialist group to call a specific european council on policy coherence for development before the publication of the next commission report in 2017, in order to raise awareness among member states of policy coherence and to better define the responsibilities of the different actors involved.
‒ the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nasan) was launched in 2012 to mobilise private investment in the agricultural sector to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. each african country has adopted a country cooperation framework (ccf) which sets out the commitments made by each of the parties involved. however, there are serious doubts about the ability of large-scale ppps such as nasan to contribute to poverty reduction and food security, as it may be the poorest who bear the burden of the social and environmental risks associated with them.
in writing. launched by the g8 summit in 2012, this so-called alliance brings together the g8 countries, the african union and several other african governments with the multinational private sector (represented by more than 150 companies, including syngenta). the alliance consists of public-private partnerships that say they aim to lift more than 50 million people out of poverty and hunger by 2022. from the outset, this alliance has been subject to a number of criticisms and challenges, from the decision-making process to the imposition of inadequate agricultural policies that serve the interests of multinationals. the report contains a number of concerns and criticisms which we share. throughout the process, the main targets, namely the hungry, small farmers, fishermen, indigenous peoples, women and other marginalized groups, were never heard. it is clear that the interests of the private groups and the g8 countries are at the heart of the strategies, not their own. this has meant that in many of the cooperation frameworks, basic human rights are not even guaranteed, such as the right to participate, the right to food and nutrition, the right to land and to produce, to social protection and an income, among others. we have made a number of proposals in the committee on agriculture which were eventually accepted in the final report. we voted in favour.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the new alliance for food and nutrition security. the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nasan) was launched in 2012 under the g8 umbrella as a broad public-private partnership (ppp) to mobilise private investment in the agricultural sector to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. the eu and the member states have a key role to play in transforming nasan into a genuine instrument to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa in order to combat poverty and food and nutrition insecurity.
‒ the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nasan) was launched in 2012 under the g8 umbrella as a broad public-private partnership (ppp) to mobilise private investment in the agricultural sector to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. i agree with the rapporteur in recognising the need for african countries to invest in agriculture. although its aim is to welcome, nasan still has many shortcomings. the european union and the member states have a key role to play in transforming nasan into a genuine tool to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa in order to combat poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. it is vital that the eu seeks to address the shortcomings of nasan described in the report, to strengthen transparency and governance, and to ensure that actions undertaken by the alliance are consistent with development policy objectives.
‒ the new alliance for food and nutrition security in africa (nasan) is a broad public-private partnership aimed at mobilising private investment in the agricultural sector to improve food and nutrition security in sub-saharan africa. nasan's strategy is based on monoculture, mechanization, biotechnology, reliance on fertilisers, long distribution channels and the production of crops for export. the limits of this approach are well known, including the environmental risks involved. the eu and the member states have a key role to play in transforming nasan into a genuine instrument to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa in order to combat poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. the rapporteur believes that the eu should suspend its support for nasan and that donors and national governments should invest in a sustainable farming model for small farmers and women, so as to benefit family farmers and provide consumers with quality food at affordable prices. i voted in favour of continuing support for nasan, as did the socialist group, provided that the shortcomings identified are addressed.
‒ in 2012, the new alliance for food and nutrition security (nasan) was established under the auspices of the g8 to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, with the aim of supporting these countries in fighting poverty by 2020. to this end, the participating countries negotiated cooperation frameworks, setting commitments to facilitate private investment in the agricultural sector in africa - unfortunately largely neglected in the last thirty years, which has increased the dependence of these countries on food imports, followed by price fluctuations on international markets. this motion for a resolution, which i generally support, calls for the need for african countries to resume investment in the agricultural sector. however, the model proposed by nasan has some gaps in terms of expropriations, small producers and agricultural practices considered unsustainable. i therefore support the proposals put forward on the need for member states to play an active role in improving the model adopted by nasan so that it can be a real instrument to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, effectively combating poverty and food and nutritional insecurity.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted. the objectives we set for development policy must be the guiding principle for the other policy areas we undertake in relation to these countries. local communities must continue to have and decide on options for future progress. as regards natural resources, recognising that they can be an economic asset, it is imperative to defend the ownership and preservation of natural heritage for the benefit of the people who depend on it directly. this must be possible within a well-defined regulatory framework, which provides real possibilities for local communities to have recourse to it and under the aegis of the right to food, nutrition, property and participation. these are basic and elementary rights which should not even be the subject of a claim today. because we enjoy progress in europe, both materially and politically, we have an obligation to promote more and better progress in the other parts of the world with which we are developing rapprochement.
‒ this initiative involves the g8, several multinationals and public-private partnerships, through which, we are assured, millions of people in africa are being lifted out of poverty and hunger. the declarations do not hide their purpose: 'to accelerate the flow of private capital', but to do this the so-called charity of the multinationals requires political changes that make it easier for them to do business and create conditions for accumulating millions in profits. this initiative starts from the assumption (to be verified, because wrong) that more production, through investment by large private corporations, will solve the problem of hunger and malnutrition in africa. now these corporations produce for lucrative markets, not for the poor and hungry. this initiative will be a useful way of facilitating access to land and agricultural inputs, while encouraging the change in agricultural practices in the interests of the multinationals themselves, favouring export-oriented intensive production models with a high incorporation of agrochemicals and gmos.
‒ i voted in favour of the heubuch report because i believe that, despite the shortcomings of the new alliance for food and nutrition security which may affect developing countries, it is necessary to support this initiative and to address its shortcomings as proposed in this report. i would stress, in the context of this initiative, the need to support the development of the local economy and small-scale farmers. i also stress that to improve the governance of the new alliance, an independent accountability mechanism is needed, that new alliance projects are in line with fao guidelines on responsible governance of land ownership, fisheries and forestry and that the land acquisition policy is brought to an end. i also regret that african civil society organisations were not consulted at the launch of the new alliance, as the participation of groups whose food security is not guaranteed in the policies that affect them must become the cornerstone of all food security policies.
in writing. ‒ since 2005, eu listed companies are required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards. these standards form an important part of the eu regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. however, the financial crisis has demonstrated that international financial reporting standards need to be reviewed and improved. in particular, the consequences of the use of the notion of 'fair value' on financial stability have opened a debate which is still ongoing.
‒ the report provides an assessment of the international accounting standards (ias) of the international financial reporting standards foundation (ifrs), the advisory group on financial reporting in europe (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob). it is part of the assessment of the working group on accounting standards, also targeting the activity of the institutions which define them, and recommends reforms in the definition of these standards. ias play a key role in the eu's financial regulatory and supervisory services. the question of convergence of international standards in this context does not raise major problems in an internationalised commercial context. however, the framework of these specific rules raises some issues, which the report does not always address critically, such as: their need in the context of the internal market and the capital market; the need to strengthen democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and public access to documents, public dialogue between stakeholders and the prevention of conflicts of interest; or the transformation of efrag into a public agency. the report has some positive points, but it is not critical of the internal market and the single capital market, which gives it a negative framework.
‒ international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa) are fundamental elements for the effective functioning of the internal market and capital markets and can be seen as a public good and thus should not compromise financial stability or harm the economic development of the union, and should serve the common good and not only the interest of investors, lenders and creditors. i argue that international accounting standards are a key part of the eu regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services, interacting with a wide variety of acts of eu regulation on financial services, including in the field of prudential regulation. it is important to emphasise that the falsification of company accounts is a threat to economic and financial stability and calls into question citizens' confidence in the social market economy model. i agree with the rapporteur in recognising the importance of such globally applicable standards in improving competitiveness and removing barriers to investment on a global scale.
‒ this report addresses the need to review and improve international accounting standards (ias), both in terms of the regulatory framework and in addressing issues relating to the adoption process of international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in the european union. the ias board is currently developing a set of high quality, globally applicable accounting standards by creating a common language for the financial lexicon worldwide. and this is where it becomes necessary to strike a balance between the complexity inherent in including financial reporting in accounting standards with the requirement to make them more transparent and understandable to users and other stakeholders. the principle of proportionality should be respected in the application of ias, which should be uniform, consistent and adapted to market-traded companies, growing smes and smaller companies wishing to be listed on a stock exchange. the aim being to evaluate the current accounting standards and to standardise eu financial services, making them more transparent, rigorous and effective and, above all, to increase european involvement and influence at all stages of the legislative process at global level, i voted in favour.
‒ international accounting standards are an important part of the eu's regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. these rules interact with a wide range of eu regulatory acts on financial services, in particular in the field of prudential regulation. we follow the report on the central role of accounting standards in developing a more transparent and more readable market for the community. what we don't follow is this association of the need to improve international accounting standards with the current financial crisis. international accounting standards are important, but they cannot replace the fundamental measures required to control the world of finance, preventing this unregulated and unbridled speculation which leads to crises whose costs are ultimately borne by the same people as always. that way, we don't confuse the plans for the intervention. the crisis will be resolved when there is the political will to take the necessary measures. they are subject to public control of the financial system and of the large oligopolies that are currently in power in the european union.
‒ un peacekeeping operations are one of the most important instruments of the un. the un's collaboration with the african union should be supported by the european union and this report contains important recommendations for more effective implementation of this support. i would like to stress the need for coordination between the various actors in order to avoid overlapping actions and to better manage the resources allocated. the united nations has the largest peacekeeping force in the world, the vast majority of which is in africa. the european union contributes more than 35% of these forces and, as the report says, it is important that member states are willing to significantly increase their contributions in order to improve investment in conflict prevention. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this report.
‒ peace support operations (psos) are a form of crisis response, seeking to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or consolidate peace, ensure compliance with peace agreements, and respond to emergencies and complex challenges associated with failing or fragile states. unfortunately, the security situation, especially in africa, has changed profoundly over the last decade due to the emergence of terrorist and rebel groups in somalia, nigeria and the sael and sahara region. the main mechanism for european cooperation with the african union (au) is the african peace facility, originally established in 2004, which provides some eur 1.9 billion through the european development fund (edf). this report, which i have supported, highlights the need to invest more in conflict prevention, taking into account factors such as political and religious radicalisation, electoral violence, population displacement and climate change. i stress that support for border management must be a priority of eu intervention in africa. the porosity of borders is one of the main factors in the rise of terrorism in africa.
‒ peace support operations are a form of crisis response and aim to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or consolidate peace, ensure compliance with peace agreements and respond to emergencies and complex challenges associated with failing or fragile states. 16 un peacekeeping missions are under way, with over 120 000 peacekeepers deployed, an unprecedented number, with 87% of un peacekeeping personnel assigned to eight missions in africa. i believe that the crises in africa require a comprehensive and coherent response, which must go beyond purely security aspects, and i agree with the need for coordinated external action using instruments in the fields of diplomacy, security and development in order to restore confidence and respond to the challenges posed by wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition processes.
‒ this report focuses on peace support operations in africa, addressing the eu's engagement with the un and the african union. it does so without disguising a certain neo-colonialist and militarist stance, rather than seeking to contribute to the effective guarantee of peace on the continent under the auspices of the un. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. in other words, those who already have a colonial past in the countries in question. as you would expect, the role of the eu (and nato) in destabilizing the region is hidden. a role always justified by the defence of human rights, but whose real motives go beyond the control of important natural resources and wealth of these countries. the report advocates the financing of military operations through the european development fund. we obviously voted against it.
‒ peace support operations (psos) are a crisis response instrument and aim to prevent armed conflict, restore or consolidate peace, ensure compliance with peace agreements and respond to emergencies and challenges associated with fragile states. it is important to stress that peace and security are indispensable preconditions for development and i advocate the need for coordinated external action using instruments in the fields of diplomacy, security and development in order to restore confidence and respond to the challenges posed by wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition processes. the change in the security situation in africa due to the emergence of terrorist and rebel groups in somalia, nigeria, the sael and the sahara cannot be overlooked. i support the need for coordinated external action using mechanisms in the fields of diplomacy, security and development, with the aim of restoring confidence and responding to the challenges posed by wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition processes, bearing in mind that the stability of the african and european neighbourhood would be extremely beneficial for all.
‒ the report addresses the issue of peace support operations in africa and the eu's commitment to the un and the african union. it treats these peace operations from a neo-colonialist and militarist perspective and not from the perspective of contributing to the effective guarantee of peace on the continent under the auspices of the un and with respect for the sovereignty of the african states. it calls for a greater military and police contribution from the member states to the region. he advocates greater collaboration between the un, the eu and nato and faster forms of intervention in these african countries, proposing the leadership of the coordination of the intervening countries in a neocolonialist vision. this report conceals the role of eu member states in destabilising the region, as well as the growing influence of nato. interventions which are almost always justified by the defence of human rights, but whose main objective is always to control the geostrategic position and the important natural resources and wealth of these countries. we voted against it.
‒ the presentation of coordinated strategies to respond to crises in africa, particularly in the fields of diplomacy, security and development, is crucial. this obviously requires early communication and strengthened consultation procedures in crisis situations with organisations such as the un, the au, nato and the osce. there is a need to improve the exchange of information, including on the planning, execution and analysis of missions. in an increasingly complex security context, un and au missions require a global approach. we must invest more in preventing conflicts rather than just in remedying them.
‒ the un is the main actor in the difficult task of ensuring international peace and security, with the vast majority of its efforts concentrated in africa. this report focuses on the eu-un strategic partnership for peacekeeping and crisis management and its priorities for 2015-2018. the eu and its member states contribute approximately 37% of the budget for un peacekeeping programmes. in africa, the eu is contributing through the african peace support (aps) programme, whose action plan has identified perceived shortcomings and emphasised strategies for resolution. the apa constitutes an important starting point with the potential to create a strengthened partnership between the eu and the african union. in addition to military and police contributions to un peacekeeping operations, i believe that the eu should continue to lead the operationalization of forces in africa, including the exchange of intelligence, information and technology services or training and logistical support. i think it is important that the eu and the un continue their efforts and support for the empowerment of africa to become self-sufficient on its own territory, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ the report on peace support operations (pso) aims to prevent armed conflict, consolidate peace and respond to complex challenges linked to rogue states. africa has been facing an unprecedented wave of instability over the past few years, imposed by terrorist and rebel groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel. the emergence of fragile states and regions without a consistent form of government, which do not meet the necessary conditions to guarantee the prevalence of fundamental rights and the prosperity of their population, condemning it to extreme poverty, anarchy and violence, also undeniably endangers the security and stability of third states. in this context, there appears to be an urgent need to improve the performance of the african union and the african regional communities as a means for the success of the plo and the rehabilitation of post-conflict countries. i voted in favour of the view that the eu has a relevant role to play in the context of the plo, continuing to provide financial and technical support to the african union and subregional organisations as a means of intensifying the fight against violence in africa, thus contributing to development, good governance and respect for human rights.
‒ contrary to the prophecies of the 1990s that heralded an era of peace, security and prosperity, we live today in a more dangerous world, with more wars and more inequality and misery. these wars, almost always disguised as humanitarian intentions, reflect the need of the rich countries to dominate the large reserves of raw materials. to do this, they encourage corruption. africa is tired of meddling. it is tired of corrupt governments supported by multinationals with the connivance of capitalist countries. it is tired of the successive manoeuvres of interference in which arms are poured into the continent and fratricidal wars are fomented to the satisfaction of the large multinationals of the military industrial complex. africa is crying out for a new paradigm in international relations. a paradigm based on respect for national sovereignty, respect for self-determination, the right of each people to dispose of its resources and to choose its own model of development.
‒ unfair trading practices can have negative consequences for actors in the food supply chain, especially farmers and smes, which in turn can have an impact on the entire european economy and on final consumers, limiting their choice of products and their access to new and innovative products. these practices occur most often where there are inequalities in trading relationships between partners in the food supply chain resulting from disparities in bargaining power and are a real obstacle to the development and smooth functioning of the internal market, disrupting its functioning. despite the existence of voluntary self-regulatory and national regulation schemes, some problems tend to persist. i support the czesak report because i think it is important that the commission presents a uniform european framework to combat pcds throughout the food supply chain, encourages member states to create or recognise public services/agencies that implement the application of control and sanctioning measures, and focuses on consumer information on agricultural products, imbalances in the chain and certification systems that allow informed product choices and action.
the report calls on the commission to put forward one or more proposals to combat unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, in order to ensure transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors. i also express my concern about food waste, the sale of food below cost of production and the misuse of certain agricultural products - milk, fruit and vegetables - as 'balance products' by large retailers. these practices can have negative consequences for actors in the food supply chain, especially farmers and smes, which in turn can have an impact on the european economy and on final consumers, limiting their choice and access to new and innovative products.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european commission published a communication calling on member states to look at ways to protect small producers and retailers in the food sector against unfair trading practices (utps), which occur whenever one party is in a stronger position than the other in a trade relationship. it was no good. the negotiating power of agricultural producers and agro-industries is gradually being lost to the power of large retailers. dumping between member states is a common practice, influencing the level of prices along the value chain from primary production through processing to the final consumer. the imbalances between member states with different production systems at different stages of development are becoming more pronounced, leading to growing deficits and greater food dependency in countries with weaker production systems. the option has been to avoid the issue of abuses by 'big buyers' in the food supply chain. not to disturb the current concentration of power in the hands of retailers and large industries, nor to propose measures to sustain and reverse this situation. the european commission merely issues communications in which it undertakes to introduce mechanisms to combat these diseases by encouraging the adoption of voluntary codes of conduct. nothing changes now.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the fight against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain is essential to ensure transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors. the big retailers must respect the farmers and producers. it is not fair that producers should see their agricultural products sold below the cost of production, such as milk, fruit and vegetables. in the long term, if nothing is done to tackle unfair trading practices, we will put the future of eu production of these products at risk, with huge losses for farmers and smes.
‒ unfair trading practices in the food supply chain seriously harm small producers by making the relationships between small producers, suppliers and distribution less clear and transparent. that is why i am in favour of a regulatory framework that protects producers and smes against these unfair practices, namely selling below production costs, thus jeopardising the long-term sustainability of production. on the other hand, these practices may also have the effect of reducing the available products and increasing their prices. for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ this report only gives examples of unfair trading practices that food supply chain actors have declared to be common in the sector. we believe that a clear, rigorous and objective definition of abusive and unfair practices is necessary. the value chain is a major issue in the food supply chain. the prices paid by consumers for products do not reflect the prices paid to producers, which are often overwhelmed by the imposition of the distribution sector, particularly by the large retailers, guaranteeing them absurd profit margins, while producers are often charged prices below the cost of production. the commission has chosen not to address the issue of abuses by 'big buyers' in the food supply chain. instead of strongly opposing the current concentration of power in the hands of retailers and large industries and proposing measures to sustain and reverse this situation and promote an active fight against dumping, it merely issues communications in which it commits itself to introducing mechanisms to combat these unfair trading practices, encouraging the adoption of voluntary codes of conduct and at the same time creating eu-wide standards for the principles of 'good practice'.
in writing. the report under review addresses the issue of unfair competition practices (ucps) and acknowledges the efforts already made by the member states and the union in this field. the issue of pcds in the context of inter-company relations has gained ground in recent years and the subsequent debate has been supported by statistical data. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. these practices result in a loss of investment and innovation capacity of firms and therefore damage the eu economy. the consequences of dpcs are now recognised by a large number of member states and their legal frameworks include a number of measures to regulate certain aspects of these practices. the report, however, takes the view that the community context lacks a specific regime, in particular a clear definition of the pcds and the provision of sanctions for those who use them. for these reasons, and because i consider it essential to establish a trade regime of its own for the union, i voted in favour.
‒ unfair commercial practices (ucps) are those which significantly deviate from good commercial conduct and are imposed unilaterally by one trading partner on the other (contract changes, late payment, restricted market access, forced price reduction). they may have detrimental effects on the eu economy, as they may result in a loss of investment and innovation capacity of enterprises, in particular smes. many of these smes are also reluctant to take legal action against stronger companies for fear that the commercial relationship will be jeopardised. in a survey conducted in march 2011, 96% of respondents in the food supply chain said they had been exposed to at least one form of pcd. the rules in this area differ considerably from one member state to another, as does the scale of the problem. the fact that dcps are a widespread and growing problem calls into question the effectiveness of self-regulatory regimes in restoring market balance. rules at eu level are needed to ensure that markets function properly and that there are fair and transparent relationships between all parties involved in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ we are seeing today situations that can constitute unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, fostering non-transparent relationships between producers and wholesalers/retailers. we also see huge food waste, reports of sales below the cost of production and the misuse of certain agricultural products - milk, fruit and agricultural products, for example, sold at very low prices in promotions. all of this should make us think and act. i therefore supported the adoption of this report, which calls on the commission to put forward proposals to combat these practices, in order to bring about greater transparency, clarity and rigour in the relations between the food production and marketing sectors. we shall thus be contributing to an overall reduction in costs and an increase in revenues for firms with less bargaining power, as well as to facilitating the disposal of their production and, consequently, to reducing food waste, thus leading to more responsible consumption. in the absence of effective voluntary and self-regulatory schemes, concerted action at european level is needed to pool efforts and provide european farmers and consumers with a level playing field in all member states.
‒ farmers are currently suffering from crushing prices which, in some sectors such as milk, are at historically low levels. in addition to unfavourable market conditions, the relationship of farmers with industry and distribution reveals differences in terms of bargaining power, which results in lower prices for farmers. the need to ensure the disposal of their products often forces farmers to accept conditions which force them to revise their yield forecasts downwards. european legislation is urgently needed to rebalance this relationship and guarantee a fair price to farmers. this is particularly important in regions whose production depends heavily on distribution to sell their products, such as the azores.
‒ large-scale distribution is now a central problem affecting the whole food production sector in a widespread way. the criticisms come from all sides and they all coincide in a reality that is terrible. the large distribution network, by virtue of its weight, now absorbs the lion's share of the value added along the entire production chain. in other words, it lives at the expense of those who produce, by crushing the prices paid to producers and by imposing improper margins which are an insult to the thousands of farmers who close their businesses every day because of a lack of profitability. the proposed measures are only a palliative. the eu, which is so quick to attack nation states and democratically elected governments, does not seem to be very motivated to intervene on this issue, which is pointed out by the majority of economic actors as one of the main obstacles to the survival of broad economic sectors, notably the agricultural and food sectors.
in writing. ‒ food demand is expected to grow by 70% by 2050. the reduction of available land, environmental loss and degradation, the scarcity of water resources, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our environment. technological innovation is a key part of the solution. the eu must take global leadership in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. finding solutions that work on a small scale in rural communities is equally important to tackling the challenges faced by many of our large farmers.
‒ this report assumes that technological innovation is a key part of the solution to the reduction of available land, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases. however, it tends to ignore the concrete framework - economic, social, political - of technological innovation and the application of its products. the central concern in this report is to ensure that the eu takes the global lead in technology and innovation (with more or less flourishing concerns about 'agricultural sustainability'). the whole report shows the growing pressure to create a regulatory framework that facilitates the application of new technological solutions in agriculture, otherwise, it is considered, the european agricultural sector will move to 'more dynamic markets', which is how it is said, with the ttip coming, the agricultural sector will either further deregulate or the big producers and the big distributors will flee to the usa. it regrets the restrictions that european legislation 'imposes on products and technologies without solid evidence of risks' (affecting gmos, herbicides, etc.), thus ruling out any application of the precautionary principle. it is business that must prevail over the protection of the health of the population and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. by 2050, the world's population is expected to reach 9.6 billion, and food demand will increase by 70 percent. we must know how to respond to this reality. this requires more and better investment in agricultural technology as well as in reducing the environmental impact of agriculture.
‒ the increase in the world population, the satisfaction of the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition, as well as the reduction of available land, environmental loss and degradation, the scarcity of water resources, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our environment. these are the big challenges ahead. technological innovation is a key part of the solution, and agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. this report aims to ensure that europe has an agricultural sector capable of developing a wide range of technologies and innovations for all types of agriculture. it is important to stress that rural areas, in particular the outermost and mountainous regions, are more vulnerable to climate change, with the risk of depopulation and ageing of the population, and consequently of abandonment of all agricultural activity. i believe that the challenges of sustainable agriculture must be met with a common strategy of the commission and the member states to ensure support for technological innovation, a risk-based and scientifically-based regulatory framework, the continuity of basic research and the development of agricultural skills.
‒ the report under consideration highlights the challenges in the areas of agricultural production in the context of an increasing world population and in line with the requirements of optimal nutrition and the demand for healthy food. the rapporteur argues that europe must optimise its production, including in the agricultural sector, in order to ensure the sustainability of resources and to make the most of technological innovation. to this end, taking the lead in world technology, innovation and agricultural sustainability, while ensuring that all european farmers have access to the benefits of technological developments, is of crucial importance. on the other hand, europe lacks human capital and technical know-how in the fields of agronomy and plant pathology, and it is therefore clear that the sustainability of agriculture in europe requires bringing farmers and scientists closer together in order to improve the practical translation of research and foster a new phase of agricultural innovation. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu, which aims to draw attention to the increasing difficulty of producing food in a balanced and sustainable way, given the scarcity of available (fertile) land and water resources, as well as the increasing degradation of our environment. the proposed solution proposes to make use of the technological innovations we have in the agricultural sector, making it more innovative, competitive and sustainable in the long term. it is also important that the use of these new technologies in agricultural production can also be of service to the vast majority of the people in developing countries who are hostages to chronic malnutrition and malnutrition. the new horizon 2020 framework programme could provide a window of opportunity for funding in the area of agricultural research and innovation. a new, more simplified and innovation-friendly regulatory framework will also be key to achieving a more modern and globally competitive european agricultural sector. only concerted work between the eu institutions, member states, academia and the agricultural sector will develop cutting-edge technological solutions for a truly sustainable and competitive agriculture, enabling europe to move to a new phase of agricultural innovation.
‒ innovation should be at the service of all types of farms, including those of the most modest or family size, for which the outermost regions can be a good laboratory. innovative solutions can contribute to more resource-efficient agriculture and improve the competitiveness of farmers. the text we are discussing includes references to new breeding techniques. i understand that we cannot take an obscurantist position on these, because we must and have the obligation to create an environment conducive to the development of science, but always, and i repeat, always, with powerful and very precautionary precautions as regards the impact on the environment and on the health of animals and people. more debate and more information are needed if we are not to take too much for granted. we must not impede the development and work of research centres in these areas, but we must be very cautious in the transition to production and consumption.
‒ the report contains positive and relevant aspects. but it's not real. and the reality is that today in the western world, we produce too much food, we pay to eliminate food products. the technology applied to agriculture today has become a problem that will only end with a new economic model of production and distribution. technology is now driving intensive production which is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet. the gmos and glyphosate, which the commission has decided to extend for a further seven years, are the most illustrious offspring of this technology. we do not deny the need for further research into agricultural practices. but first we have to understand each other. agriculture subject to the laws of capitalism and the maximum accumulation of profit can only give rise to ever more intensive and productivist technologies. before we talk about technology, it is therefore important to reverse our cap, which is now completely liberalized.
‒ i voted in favour of the mcintyre report because i agree with technology-based solutions for modern and sustainable agriculture in the eu. i would stress that the compilation and analysis of large integrated data sets has the potential to promote innovation in the agricultural sector and is particularly useful for addressing and developing an efficient and sustainable food chain, with benefits for farmers, the economy, consumers and the environment. i support the call on the commission and the member states to remove obstacles to the integration of complex and fragmented ict systems, by encouraging investment and supporting training costs and by making the necessary infrastructure more accessible to agriculture. i would stress that i voted against paragraphs 30 and 31 which refer to new methods of animal or plant breeding because i consider that the text does not include the due precautions which must accompany the development and use of these techniques. i would like to say, however, that the negative vote in these paragraphs was in defence of the precautionary principle and is not against the promotion of agricultural research, since i am convinced that innovation contributes constructively to the achievement of sustainable agriculture in the eu.
‒ the european agricultural sector is of central importance to the union as a whole, providing food security and at the same time being a key economic pillar providing employment for 25 million people who are directly involved in agricultural work, as well as those working in the food, retail and other complementary sectors. the common agricultural policy must focus more on farmers and encourage innovation and competitiveness. better alignment with other industrial sectors, such as chemicals, health and technology, through improved knowledge intersection, integration of resource use and better understanding of the reciprocal effects is needed to optimise their interaction and better integrate agriculture into the circular economy.
‒ the report 'has one thing on its face and another on its shoe'. it advocates reducing the environmental footprint of agriculture and supports extensive animal husbandry. i would also like to see the commission and the council agreeing on the need to encourage the recovery of animal protein by using waste from livestock production to produce animal protein feeds. the report calls for the continuous development of innovative plant breeding techniques, the development of new varieties with higher yields, higher nutritional value, better resistance to pests - i.e. a defence of gmos - while calling for the preservation of european seed banks and warning of the danger of chemical dependence of these new crop species. in the midst of some green rhetoric of concern about the loss of biodiversity and environmental protection, there is the apology for the increase in competitiveness - which has made current agricultural practices viable. while innovation and new technologies can help farmers, agriculture and the environment, it is the economic and social model in which they are embedded that largely determines the nature - positive or negative - of their effects and whether or not they serve a primary purpose - profit - that overrides others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the strengthening of innovation and economic development in the future management of european agricultural holdings. by 2050, the world's population is expected to reach 9.6 billion, and food demand will increase by 70 percent. we must know how to respond to this reality. this requires more and better investment in agricultural technology and innovation. farmers have the capacity and knowledge to innovate, but they are limited by european legislation. i would like to point out that, for example, pest control with insects already exists, but european legislation still sometimes makes this innovation difficult. there is still a lot to be done in this area, but the eu is taking steps in this direction. the memorandum of understanding between the european commission and the european investment bank is extremely important for supporting agricultural projects and young farmers by providing new financing opportunities. this will make it possible to modernise farms and to support research more.
‒ agricultural practices have evolved over time, changing both structurally and in relation to the production process, making the agricultural sector one of the most dynamic economic sectors, and contemporary agricultural practices are highly modern. technological innovation and agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the challenges of sustainable agriculture must be met with a common strategy by the commission and the member states to ensure support for technological innovation, a risk-based and scientifically based regulatory framework, the continuity of basic research and the development of agricultural skills.
‒ the world population will increase to more than 9 billion people by 2050. food preferences are changing rapidly, with more consumers demanding animal protein, such as dairy or meat. this situation requires the reduction of the ecological footprint of agricultural production in order to relieve the pressure on our environment and on arable land. better alignment with other industrial sectors, such as chemicals, health and technology, through improved knowledge intersection, integration of resource use and better understanding of the reciprocal effects is needed to optimise their interaction and better integrate agriculture into the circular economy. this will also allow for the creation of more jobs along the entire agri-food value chain and ensure new income streams. the european agricultural sector is of central importance to the union, providing food security and providing employment for 25 million people directly involved in agricultural work, as well as those working in the food, retail and other complementary sectors.
in writing. ‒ agricultural practices have changed, both structurally and in the production process, making the sector one of the most economically dynamic. the common agricultural policy, as the basic pillar of european agriculture, must focus on farmers and consumers simultaneously, without compromising policy objectives, by making innovation and competitiveness more flexible and better. since technological innovations contribute to targeted interventions, the application of precision agriculture and big data will transform agriculture and contribute to higher production using fewer resources. in addition, alignment with other industrial and technological sectors, such as chemicals, health and technology, is key to optimising and better integrating agriculture into the circular economy. technological and/or technical innovations will thus create more jobs and new income streams. the potential for innovation in agriculture has not yet been fully realised and some major difficulties have to be overcome in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector, since we are talking about a sector which provides employment for 25 million people and functions as a food reserve for our continent - and i voted in favour of it.
‒ innovation in agriculture requires sufficient investment in research and development and farmers' involvement in finding solutions and disseminating results. innovative solutions such as those encompassing precision farming should be at the service of all types of farms. they must have a cost/opportunity ratio commensurate with the financial capacity of smaller farms, such as those in more remote or outermost areas, such as the acores, where agriculture is an essential activity for local employment. agriculture, to feed the world, must adapt to the challenge of climate change and make rational use of available resources. to do this, we need innovative solutions, based on technology or a different approach to traditional practices, in a process where farmers must be the focus, as the main actors of change and the subject of appropriate training.
‒ the report contains positive and relevant aspects. but it's not real. and the reality is that today in the western world, we produce too much food, we pay to eliminate food products. the technology applied to agriculture today has become a problem that will only end with a new economic model of production and distribution. technology is now driving intensive production which is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet. the gmos and glyphosate, which the commission has decided to extend for a further seven years, are the most illustrious offspring of this technology. we do not deny the need for further research into agricultural practices. but first we have to understand each other. agriculture subject to the laws of capitalism and the maximum accumulation of profit can only give rise to ever more intensive and productivist technologies. before we talk about technology, it is therefore important to reverse our now completely liberalized cap.
‒ i voted in favour of the huitema report because i believe that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and that it is possible to modernise european farms through innovation, research and development. tomorrow's demographic challenges require adaptations in both food production and our way of consuming and disposing of food (100 million tonnes of food are wasted in the eu every year, 33% of which is generated by consumers). i stress the need to create synergies between new forms of economic development in agriculture and our consumption patterns in line with the principles of the circular economy. the role of agriculture is paramount in this respect through the prudent use of natural resources. i would also stress the potential for job creation not only in the food production sector but also in the tourism and green bioeconomy sectors, especially in a field where the eu is already the world's largest exporter of agricultural products, making the agri-food sector a key economic pillar of the union.
mr president, the choice is very clear. either europe remains an old continent on the defensive or it sets a partnership for the future with the neighbouring countries to support their development, to better manage migration and also to support refugees. the choice is so clear. of course this means a big undertaking, a big undertaking based on investments, but let me underline that investment is also jobs. many new jobs could be created for both young people in europe and in the neighbouring countries. i believe that you should use this argument of jobs – new jobs which can come from this initiative – to convince member states to put more resources into the initiative because we need more contribution from the member states. let me tell you that, so far, young people in europe understand this very well. they share this vision, they have many initiatives in this direction, and it is my pleasure to announce that very soon young people’s organisations will come forward with concrete proposals in exactly this direction.
mr president, the first point i wanted to make here, and which i think is the most important to welcome in this initiative of the commission, is in fact the understanding of structural factors. we have two fronts here, one which is the immediate front, which is to save lives, and i think that we cannot hesitate to put all the resources at our disposal to save the lives that are being lost every day in the mediterranean. this is an unwavering obligation of an organisation to the european union and the countries of the european union. but then you have to deal with the structural factor. and here i think that beyond the middle east, where there is, finally, clearly, in the case of jordan and lebanon, already the idea of pacts to move forward, the african question is fundamental. and, in particular, as a portuguese who knows well the african situation and what the flow of people will certainly be in the coming years, this will be something to be maintained for a long time and not just a short-term crisis. i think it is essential that we are able to intervene in particular in sub-saharan africa and that is why i think that the commission is indeed on the right track here and that the different countries of the european union, if they really want to open up to refugees on the one hand, but also to control this crisis on the other, must adhere to this commission plan. and so i would say that this is very good news at this stage and i congratulate the two vice-presidents on the effort they have made. it's not easy to defend this position at this time.
in writing. if we take into account that, as all the studies and estimates point out, the current wave of refugees is exponential and will tend to increase, we realize that this is the biggest civilizational challenge for europe since the end of the second world war. of course, there will always be economic migration. all human beings have the right to seek to escape poverty and to aspire to a better life. two million portuguese did so throughout the 20th century. europe must recognise that its history, its human, cultural and linguistic wealth has been shaped by migration and will continue to be so. we have to get used to thinking a little bit beyond the immediate. there is a whole range of information and pedagogical work to be done, starting with policy makers and ending with schools. in a time of accounting, we risk dehumanizing refugees: the risk of seeing them as numbers instead of human beings. it is the duty of each of us to counter the discourse of prejudice and fear and to remember that our human dignity depends on first recognizing the dignity of the other.
in writing. thousands of deaths in the mediterranean last week alone: it is clear that the council and the commission have no idea how to deal with the causes of the humanitarian crisis or with the consequences, and are betting on replicating the immoral outsourcing deal with turkey. and they continue to give business to traffickers by not opening legal and safe pathways of access, just as they stop explaining to europeans that the flows of migrants and refugees can help stop europe's ageing. and they're not even moving forward to create instruments to fund the integration of refugees and migrants. treating africa as "one-size-fits-all" is a gross mistake. a marshall plan for africa must begin by stopping the job-destroying austerity in the union itself. we need european governments to stop welcoming illicit flows of capital that kleptocratic elites steal from their people and states. they must stop supporting oppressive regimes, such as those in egypt, sudan, ethiopia, eritrea and others, who met at the valletta conference. and stop wasting the union's time on coordinated action in the cfsp and csdp frameworks to resolve conflicts, combat terrorism and organised crime, strengthen the rule of law, and promote sustainable development in africa, its neighbourhood and beyond.
mr president, commissioner, we must be clear on the essential point: we cannot confuse economic migration with refugees. and we have to fight illegal migration and human trafficking and regulate legal migration. and in the field of economic migration, as the commissioner said, it is clear that europe must be able to attract the best in the world and to promote internal mobility. a different issue is the legal and safe access of people fleeing war and seeking protection in our territory. we will prevent thousands of deaths in the mediterranean while fighting human traffickers. we'll manage the influx of people better. but let us be serious: resettlement mechanisms only achieve their purpose with numbers that are in line with reality. and they do not replace other access instruments, such as humanitarian visas. it is clear that the success of resettlement mechanisms depends on cooperation with third countries. but here too, a word of caution to navigation: more funding cannot be more frontloading, that is, facing the present with what was destined for the future. we can't go into 2017 and be faced with a new emergency because we didn't know how to hedge our expenses ahead of time. a final note on the integration policy. my country, portugal, was ranked the second best country in the world for integrating migrants in 2015. however, we know that there is still much work to be done. at european level, unfortunately, much more needs to be done.
madam president, mr avramopoulos, the european union insists on pushing the serious humanitarian crisis it is facing with its stomach. it is externalizing its borders in the hope of containing the exodus of refugees, for which it has direct responsibilities, by virtue of its policy of interference and aggression in north africa and the middle east. your criminal migration policy and the agreement with turkey have militarized the response to a humanitarian tragedy, with the presence of nato in the aegean sea. they have created concentration camps and deportations, where human dignity is ignored and human rights trampled on. they diverted the migratory route to the central mediterranean, with tragic consequences to be expected. two thousand eight hundred and fourteen deaths recorded this year alone, ten thousand in the last three years, men, women and children. a real tragedy that will worsen and turn the mediterranean into a veritable mass grave. the terrible images of bodies washing up on the shore are today a clear expression of the class character of this european union and of those who legitimise it. it's on your conscience!
the european union is committed to achieving a europe 2020 target of one quarter of the working age population remaining unemployed or in training. under the pretext of lifelong learning, the commission pursues a logic of subordinating education and training not to the interests of the country's structural needs, but to the benefit of the so-called 'labour market' and the interests of the large economic groups, promoting the elitisation of education, fuelling inequalities and social discrimination. under the pretext of the need to adapt skills to the challenges of technological change, the european union is promoting flexicurity, which is synonymous with labour deregulation, attacks on workers' rights and collective bargaining, and pursuing its neoliberal agenda. this european union has nothing to offer the poor and the working people except the path of impoverishment and exploitation!
mr president, commissioner, two pillars must underpin this agenda of new powers for europe. the commission's proposal is a concrete response to the high unemployment rates, which particularly affect young people in some of our regions, as has already been said here, and a real stimulus to the economies of the various european countries which are facing enormous shortfalls in the supply of skilled and specialised workers in crucial development sectors. i would like to take this opportunity to refer to a sector which, representing 10% of gdp, employs some 25 million people throughout the union. it is urgent to support the digitisation of companies, to create tools for professionals in the sector to acquire new skills, digital skills. we believe in tourism as a career of choice: so we created this option. we want labour mobility, we want to implement work placements and work placement instruments among european smes. we need to focus on a common curriculum, create online platforms to match job demand and supply, professionalize services provided with human resources qualification strategies.
in writing. the eu agenda for new skills and new jobs is part of the eu 2020 strategy, meeting the target of employing 75% of the working age population. that is, it is assumed that 25% of the working-age population will not be active. the eu-2020, behind the social and environmental rhetoric, is the implementation of policies that have materialized the degradation of the socioeconomic conditions of the populations, promoting labour flexibility and deregulation, the primacy of the deepening of the internal market, with the liberalizations and privatizations of even more economic sectors, the liberalization and deregulation of international trade. the new skills agenda has no other purpose and fits into this agenda. it advocates labour flexibility, the commodification of education and the trend towards early professionalization (through the connection of school to the labour market or dual education), the promotion of international competitiveness, through deregulation and the loss of rights and wages. education, vocational training and the diversification of technical skills are key factors in ensuring that workers adapt to the constant change of the present - whether in technology, communication methods or work management and organisation. but the objectives of this agenda are diverse: deregulation of work and narrowing the role of education systems.
mr. president, as everyone knows, the rana plaza collapsed killing 1,100 people and injuring over 2,500. bangladesh is the second largest exporter of clothing in the world, with 60% of its production exported here to the european union. this disaster has been a terrible reminder of the need for concrete action to improve the safety of buildings and the general working conditions not only in this country but also for other suppliers in the union. three years after the signing of the sustainability compact we regard some of the commitments made by the government of bangladesh as positive. however, in our view much more needs to be done. for example, the government must respect ilo convention 87, it must extend the application of the whole of the labour law to industrial export free zones and it must also, of course, continue the fight against corruption and the enforcement of labour standards. i hope that this pact, which is the result of the efforts and goodwill of many international and european institutions, independent countries and companies in bangladesh itself, will serve as an example for the improvement of working conditions in other countries and for more effective and coordinated action by the international community.
mr president, taslima nasreen, 1994 sakharov prize laureate, just a few days ago here in the european parliament, with other sakharov prize laureates, denounced the spiral of radicalisation and violence that is plaguing her country, which she cannot return to because of death threats. brutal murders are repeated without anyone being safe. members of religious orders, sexual, religious and ethnic minorities, bloggers, academics, journalists, opposition elements and foreign citizens are eliminated without investigations being conducted to identify the perpetrators of such heinous crimes. on the other hand, kidnappings, arbitrary arrests and killings by security forces are on the rise. we have established a dialogue with bangladesh through a cooperation agreement. after the rana plaza tragedy, it is unacceptable that human rights should be relegated to the background. the european authorities must make it clear to the bangladeshi government that it has no regard for reality in its persistent denial that terrorist groups such as daesh and al-qaeda are not active in the country, while blaming the opposition and local activist groups for the violence.
mr president, european court of human rights judgments passed in the cases of al-nashiri and abu zubaydah versus poland, pending respectively versus romania and lithuania, and nasr and ghali versus italy plus el-masri versus fyrom, and judicial decisions in the uk in favour of victims of torture all prove that european governments lied to this parliament to callously cover up active complicity with the cia extraordinary renditions torture programme. worse, that cooperation was paid for with large sums of money, as the us senate intelligence committee of december 2015 reveals. even worse, impunity has been granted by eu states to those responsible for these crimes. in italy, for instance, state secrecy was used to block the judiciary and, as a result, innocent, low—level officers were convicted, while top culprits are protected. italy now wants to put in jail the portuguese american, sabrina de sousa, a former cia officer who was tried in absentia and never given the chance to prove her denial of any involvement. even the victim of torture and kidnapping in that case, mr abu omar, the imam of milan, has stated that she is only a scapegoat. in my country, portugal, all cover up efforts were made to protect mr durão barroso who, as prime minister, abetted the cia renditions programme, as i reported in detail to the general public prosecutor. the case was closed to spare him, and in the meantime he was made president of the european commission. how can our governments be credible in the eyes of citizens to effectively fight terrorism if they are complicit in covering up these awful crimes? i will never give up looking for accountability in this case.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this for several years. the secrecy that surrounded this program in the beginning led to it being very slow to make clear what really happened. only very slowly have responsibilities been settled and, let us be clear, not everything is settled yet. it is therefore our duty to continue to give the necessary impetus, respecting the principle of subsidiarity where it should be respected and the separation of judicial and political power. on the other hand, this issue cannot be used for a moral crusade, a mere instrument for ideological propaganda. you can't ignore our interlocutor on the other side of the atlantic. and it's not just the clarification of truth and responsibility that moves us. we are also moved by the desire to prevent such flagrant violations of fundamental rights from happening again in the future. we believe that the fundamental rights of citizens are at the heart of the values of the european union and that their protection is a requirement, even in the face of abuses by states. this is a task which we must pursue with respect for the past, which is not yet fully understood, and for a future which we want to see better and more respectful of the rights and dignity of the human person.
mr president, we have always advocated a space policy based on deepening cooperation between european countries and beyond. we have always been quite clear that this space policy must be exclusively focused on peaceful purposes and must exclude any use of space for military purposes. the criticism of the militarization of space and the abandonment of any arms race in space was a position which the majority of this parliament has never taken. on the contrary, this militarization is explicitly assumed and defended, as is the case here today, at the same time as we are being told about the development of the space market. it is revealing of the way the european union looks at space and it is also dangerous. the endless adventure of mankind to discover that great book that is continually open, of which galileo spoke to us, cannot serve to prolong on earth the wicked, aggressive and oppressive order that some have been imposing. on the contrary, it should help us solve problems, not create problems. an adventure to free, not to oppress.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments is a good one. we said then that the ratios were unrealistic, we said that this plan did not meet the needs of economic recovery, we said finally that this plan was not neutral because it has no criteria for geographical distribution, it favours the richest countries and it represents a real banquet for large companies through public-private partnerships. the current figures show that most investment is actually concentrated in the richest and most developed regions of central europe, confirming a framework of private management of energy transport infrastructure, which should be public and placed at the service of development and not at the service of the accumulation of profits for large multinational companies. portugal is currently at zero on the implementation of this plan, despite the fact that austerity policies have drastically reduced investment to the point where they no longer even cover capital depreciation, jeopardising future growth. instead of celebrating fictitious results, particularly in relation to smes, it is time to think about a real public investment plan at the level of each member state, thus ensuring social and territorial cohesion.
madam president, the european fund for strategic investments has proved in its first year of operation to be a strong incentive for investment in the european union. it is boosting confidence, growth and employment. it has already mobilised €100 billion, which is not a small sum, in 26 member states. moreover, of the €75 billion for the sme window, over €50 billion has already been mobilised, exceeding all expectations and the best of expectations. portugal, for example, has already used this sme scheme, which has enabled it to support more than 590 smes and mobilise more than €588 million. in view of these data, it is easy to predict and to argue that this fund should continue beyond the three years initially envisaged. it is also important that the eib complies with the regulation as regards additionality, as regards the selection of projects, which must take account of territorial cohesion and job creation. i would like to stress that the regulation does not set minimum amounts for the eligibility of projects. no one is obliged to apply for this fund, but member states and local authorities should be encouraged to do so, to set up regional, national and transnational investment platforms to maximise the geographical spread of investments. in addition, the advisory support platform, the iap adviser, needs to be disseminated so that the investment is known and mobilised across the european union.
madam president, when president juncker came to this house to announce his investment plan, he told us that christmas had come early. clearly, it was an exaggeration of optimism, but also, with the age we are, you can only believe in santa claus if you want to and you just have to spend a year of the investment plan to realize that it fell far short of what was announced. we do need investment in the european union, but not this kind of investment. we must break the taboo on public investment, and it must be in strategic sectors that create added value, such as the energy sector. i do not understand the added value of motorways in germany or the netherlands. there must be regional distribution, it cannot be concentrated in the same countries as always and with more investment. southern europe or eastern europe cannot be wiped off the map. it must be directed at the real european industrial fabric and not just at the multinationals. to say that small and medium-sized enterprises are enterprises of 3000 employees, mr katainen, is that true? finally, mr katainen, the miracle of multiplication has not happened, and the european commission remains in a state of denial, oblivious to reality and self-deluded. so, nothing new.
madam president, i would point out to mr katainen that he is the vice-president for growth and jobs. so let me recall the three objectives the investment plan and efsi should meet and, in fact, the crucial questions the european parliament will address to you to ensure a regular oversight. the questions are very simple. how far is efsi going in raising recovery and job creation? the second question is: how far is efsi going in promoting the transition to a new growth model, greener and making the best of the digital revolution? the third is: how far is efsi going in reducing the regional divergences? my conclusion, and my group’s conclusion, is that the commission needs to change something fundamental, first on the promotional strategy, because you need to build up investment platforms and to spread advisory hubs everywhere. secondly, we need to change the financial strategy. sooner or later you need to confront the need to raise the ceilings of the mff and, most of all, you need to create real room to invest in the national fiscal policies.
the strategic investment plan is one of the key tools for a change in the priorities of the european union, reinforcing investment, fostering growth and jobs and supporting competitive differentiation priorities such as the digital union, the energy union, industry 4.0 and the new smart grids. after one year of implementation, the results of the plan are frankly negative, not only in terms of the resources mobilised but above all in terms of the allocation made. the fund was mainly used to reinforce projects which could have continued to be financed by existing eu instruments and was channelled not mainly to countries with the greatest investment needs but to those where investment rates were already above the european average. it has therefore failed as a lever for innovation and as a promoter of cohesion. the strategy for implementing the strategic investment fund must be radically changed. it has to incorporate more innovation and more risk-taking. it has to finance projects with potential but which could not be financed through traditional instruments and to finance projects located in territories with difficulties in raising finance for reasons external to the merits of the projects.
madam president, we are in favour of the principle of international cooperation and of helping countries which are experiencing economic difficulties for various reasons. however, this cooperation must be genuine and based on respect for the sovereignty of states and their right to dispose of their resources and to choose their own development model. helping tunisia to improve its public finances, to reform its financial system, to improve its regulatory framework for trade and investment, or to correct its budgetary situation, is clearly outside the real cooperation we advocate. it is more like imposing reforms to impose a model based on full liberalization of the economy. these are reforms that the european union imposes on its member states, and the results are in sight. we therefore reject this so-called aid because it is not without conditions. it imposes on the tunisian people a model which, like here in europe, will generate more inequality and more poverty in the medium term.
mr president, i would like to make a final appeal to the signatories of the next resolution to reconsider their vote. at a time when the venezuelan opposition is engaged in a process of dialogue with the government promoted by unasul and when the permanent council of the organization of american states, with the support of the right wing of several countries, has approved a declaration in which it supports ... the parties ... (the president cut the speaker off)
‒ i agree to the setting up of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. corporate tax avoidance deprives the public budgets of eu member states of several billion euros a year. it also jeopardises the fair distribution of burdens between taxpayers and fair competition between companies. companies also take advantage of the complexity of tax rules and the lack of cooperation between member states to off-load profits and minimise their taxes. i support this decision to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the non-application of a number of directives in the financial system, money laundering, automatic exchange of information in the taxation field, etc., including the possible breach by member states and their associated and dependent territories of the duty of sincere cooperation enshrined in article 4 (3) of the treaty on european union.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry because i consider it important to investigate the alleged non-implementation of directive 2005/60/ec by the commission and the alleged non-application and non-effective implementation of that directive by the member states, as well as the alleged non-application by the member states of administrative sanctions and other measures of an administrative nature to institutions that have been found responsible for serious infringements of national provisions.
in writing. the establishment of a commission of inquiry to investigate the scandals revealed by the panama papers was voted in favour. however, we cannot fail to point out that the recent past, with its succession of tax scandals, leads us to conclude that we are facing a structural problem and not just a cyclical one. this committee, regardless of whether it is investigating the facts about the perpetrators of these practices, whether they are consultancy firms, multinationals or national governments, should provoke a broad reflection on the deeper causes that created the conditions for these practices to be common and have become widespread in most large multinationals with the connivance of several eu member states. and these root causes are naturally associated with the deregulation of the financial system and the lifting of all restrictions on the movement of capital. it is to be hoped that these matters will not be the subject of the work of this committee. we regret that the mandate of the committee does not reflect this need. having made it possible to set up this committee, we denounce what we consider to be its limits and, in a certain sense, some of the perversity that may be associated with it: giving the impression that something is being done to change something, while in reality everything remains the same. that is what happened to the luxleaks commission.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the above and in order to ensure citizens' trust in the european institutions, and in the light of the principles of transparency, rigour and fairness, the creation of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance deserves my vote in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the committee set up is charged with investigating the alleged non-application by member states of administrative sanctions and other measures of an administrative nature to institutions found to be responsible for infringements, as well as the alleged non-implementation of directive 2011/16/eu by the commission and the alleged non-effective application of that directive by member states, and the potential breach by member states and their associated and dependent territories of the duty of sincere cooperation enshrined in article 4 (3) of the treaty on european union. the committee set up should make any recommendations it considers necessary on this matter and assess the latest developments in the commission's external strategy for effective taxation, the links between the legal framework of the union and the member states and the tax regimes of third countries. the commission of inquiry, which has 65 members, is to submit a report within 12 months.
‒ i supported the proposal for a decision based on a european parliament resolution on the setting up of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, its powers, numerical composition and term of office. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the final objective of the 65-member committee will be to produce a report every 12 months, making recommendations to member states that contribute to better tax governance.
in writing. the setting up of a commission of inquiry to investigate the scandals revealed by the panama papers is an important political signal to combat a practice that is reprehensible at all levels. however, the recent past, with its succession of tax scandals, leads us to conclude that we are facing a structural problem and not just a cyclical one. this committee, regardless of whether it is investigating the facts about the perpetrators of these practices, whether they are consultancy firms, multinationals or national governments, should provoke a broad reflection on the deeper causes that created the conditions for these practices which are common and widespread in most large multinationals with the connivance of most of the so-called rich countries, many of them part of the eu. and these root causes are naturally associated with the deregulation of the financial system and the lifting of all restrictions on the movement of capital. we therefore regret that the mandate of this committee does not reflect this need. but with our work, we hope that it will impose itself, so that citizens understand that tax fraud and evasion will only be answered with a new economic model in which the sovereignty of states is above the agenda of large multinational companies.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the fight against fraud, the commission has decided to propose that the council adopt a regulation on the control of the use of the euro by the member states in the field of the fight against fraud. i would stress that the european parliament is the democratic body par excellence of the european institutions and therefore has a duty to investigate what has happened and to find out why the current tax avoidance and evasion measures have not been effective. i would stress that, in fulfilling this mandate, parliament must also propose in its final report measures to avoid a repetition of the panama papers. in addition to strengthening domestic regulation in this area, it is also essential to encourage third countries to apply minimum standards of good governance in tax matters and aggressive tax planning.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. another criterion that must be stressed is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is also the case here. the european parliament is responsible for giving its consent to the agreement establishing it. that's a given. for all these reasons and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the republic of palau, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
‒ palau's economy is based mainly on the service sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, with a booming tourism sector, also due to the increase in the number of flights to the island. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including palau. fisheries, shellfish farming and tourism are the main sectors of development. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, and is of high political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, as well as of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp). the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and citizens of palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. as on other similar occasions we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-palau agreement, under the cotonou agreement, provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it is an important agreement for strengthening relations between the two parties, particularly in the economic and cultural fields, allowing for dialogue and learning on civil liberties and human rights issues. i have voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision.
‒ relations between the eu and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of palau was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. the council adopted a decision in 2014 authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the republic of palau. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and citizens of palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the above, i am in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. we voted in favour.
‒ the republic of palau is a democratic republic which fully respects the human rights enshrined in its constitution. in accordance with the fundamental values of the european union, palau upholds the principles of liberty, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. progress on women's rights and human trafficking, as well as accession to the international labour organisation, confirm palau's democratic commitment and establish the common basis for the conclusion of this agreement. the agreement also represents the culmination of closer relations between the european union and the republic of palau and will simplify travel conditions for businessmen, facilitate investment and boost tourism. as regards the dangers of mobility and the risks posed by the opening of borders, it should be underlined that the available data attest to the confidence placed in visa applicants who are nationals of the republic of palau, whose visa applications enjoy a low refusal rate. i have to say that i am not in favour of the resolution, because i think it is important to bring the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together and to give value to countries which respect fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau and is of high political importance, and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations as well as of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa-free agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel conditions for businessmen, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. palau is a democratic republic that fully respects the human rights enshrined in the constitution and upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together.
‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, and is of high political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, as well as intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the cotonou agreement and negotiations for a bilateral agreement were launched in 2014. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and reciprocally for citizens of palau travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the two parties, and is of major political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement and constitutes a strengthening of economic and cultural relations. palau is a democratic republic that respects the human rights enshrined in the constitution. however, it is expected that political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms will be intensified. the main service sector of palau's economy, with a booming tourism sector, will also make it possible to invest in and boost tourism. i agree with the position of my colleague on the importance of visa-free travel as a means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together, and of fully benefiting from the acp-eu partnership, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. we supported it.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. another criterion that must be stressed is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is also the case here. the european parliament is responsible for giving its consent to the agreement establishing it. that's a given. for all these reasons and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the kingdom of tonga, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
‒ tonga's economy is based mainly on agriculture (pumpkin production and tuna fishing), which accounts for 20% of gdp, and the services sector, which accounts for 60% of gdp, with a progressively developing tourism sector. as regards investment and trade relations with tonga, they remain variable and weak, both in value and relative terms. in addition, tonga has significant wind power generation capacity and 90% of the 11th edf 2014-2020 envelope of eur 11 million is allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, and is of high political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, as well as of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp). the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. as on other similar occasions, we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-tonga agreement under the cotonou agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it is an important agreement for strengthening relations between the two parties, particularly in the economic and cultural fields, allowing for dialogue and learning on civil liberties and human rights issues. i have voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision.
‒ relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the kingdom of tonga was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. the council adopted a decision in 2014 authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the kingdom of tonga. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and tongan citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the above, i am in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. we voted in favour.
‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, and is of high political importance, and constitutes an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, as well as of intensifying political dialogue including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the kingdom of tonga has been a constitutional monarchy since the organisation of the first democratic elections in 2010. political dialogue between the eu and each of the pacific acp countries, particularly tonga, has been progressively intensified. the european union is negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including the kingdom of tonga, and there is strong development potential. the visa-free agreement could have positive effects on investment and the development of the tourism sector. the visa exemption can be a positive sign of support for that country and the many efforts it is making and is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together.
‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, and is of high political importance in the framework of the cotonou agreement, and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations, as well as intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the cotonou agreement. in november 2014, negotiations were opened for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the kingdom of tonga has been a constitutional monarchy since 2010 and political dialogue with the eu has been steadily intensifying. the agreement will allow for intensified dialogue on issues such as the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against violence against women and gender equality. the tongan economy is based on agriculture and services, with a progressively developing tourism sector, and this agreement could have a positive impact on investment and development in the latter. since this country poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order, visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ relations between the european union and the republic of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. visa-free travel is an important element in bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership. we supported it.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. in fact, one of the various requirements for the conclusion of the agreement is reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. another criterion to be noted is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is also the case here. however, the need for close monitoring in this area is underlined. the european parliament is responsible for giving its consent to the agreement establishing it. that's a given. but here too there are specific features which, as the committee on foreign affairs has pointed out, are the result of the farc. it is therefore essential to ensure that these organised crime groups do not benefit at any time from the agreement, given the obvious repercussions this would have on european security - but also colombian security. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the agreement with the republic of colombia.
‒ colombia is the eu's fourth largest economic partner in the region, with trade worth eur 11 884 billion. the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner. foreign trade accounts for about 20% of gdp. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic ties between companies and facilitate investment. the agreement will thus strengthen relations between the two parties and give a new impetus to trade. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and constitutes an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations as well as of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of colombia has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the member states of the european union and for colombian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. as on other similar occasions, we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-colombia agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of colombia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. colombia is a very important partner of latin america and this is an important agreement for strengthening relations between the two parties, particularly in the economic and cultural areas, allowing dialogue and learning on issues of civil liberties and human rights. the peace negotiations between the colombian government and the farc are being closely monitored by the european parliament, and it is important to obtain assurances that the organized crime groups will not benefit from the agreement, causing security problems in europe, but also in colombia. i have voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision.
‒ relations between the eu and the republic of colombia are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of colombia was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. the council adopted a decision in 2014 authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the republic of colombia. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and for citizens of colombia and tonga to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the above, i am in favour of concluding the agreement.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of colombia was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for colombian nationals to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, which is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations as well as intensifying political dialogue, including on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will help to strengthen regional coherence, since colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose nationals still require visas, and it remains an important element in bringing the european and colombian peoples closer together. colombia is the eu's fourth largest economic partner in the region and one of the most dynamic and open economies in the region. the agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties and give a new impetus to trade. the republic of colombia is one of the oldest formal democracies on the continent and has a relatively stable regime. the agreement also contains a joint declaration on cooperation on irregular immigration in which the union and colombia recall their commitment to the readmission of irregular immigrants.
‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations as well as intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will also help to strengthen regional coherence, as colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose nationals still require visas, and it remains an important element in bringing the european and colombian peoples closer together.
‒ following an overall positive assessment of the situation in colombia, in may 2015 the commission opened negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with the european union. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner and the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthening economic ties and facilitating investment and boosting trade. in the tourism sector, the number of colombian tourists in the eu has increased in recent years, and has stimulated several european companies to make considerable investments in hotel and tourist infrastructure. visa liberalisation could therefore further increase tourist flows and investments between the two parties. as one of the oldest formal democracies on the continent and with a relatively stable regime, colombia shares with the eu a number of challenges which justify the importance and need for enhanced cooperation, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as part of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of colombia has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and colombian nationals to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. the republic of colombia has been transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. we support it.
‒ the eu exports €189 billion in products covered by the expansion of the ati, a figure that is expected to increase after the elimination of customs duties. the agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who rely on imported components. however, in some sectors there may also be increased competition. the ati requires each participant to eliminate customs duties and consolidate them at zero rate on the basis of the most favoured nation principle for all covered information technology (it) products.
‒ the agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology (it) products requires each participant to eliminate customs duties and consolidate them at zero rate on the basis of the most favoured nation principle for all it products covered. the itc covers some 200 tariff headings, including computers, telephones, but also inputs, components and machinery for the production of it articles. the exemption from customs duties granted by the participants in the ati has played an important role in the development and expansion of trade recorded over almost 20 years of application of the ati. in 2012, six countries proposed to extend the list of products covered by the agreement (eu, usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica). the products covered by the agreement include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products, including magnetic resonance imaging machines, machine tools for the manufacture of integrated circuits, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. this agreement does not undermine, but rather strengthens, the hegemony of the large multinationals, which seek to strengthen their control of the market, either by increasing turnover or by ensuring absolute dominance of knowledge and research through 'intellectual property rights'.
‒ the first information technology agreement (ita) was signed at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. although initially only 29 wto member states signed the agreement, the ati now has 82 participants. the eu exports €189 billion in products covered by the expansion of the ati, a figure that is expected to increase after the elimination of customs duties. i am voting in favour of this agreement because it will result in lower prices for consumers but also for producers who are dependent on imported components. however, in some sectors there may also be increased competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the extension of the information technology agreement, given that the first att was signed at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. although initially only 29 wto member states signed the agreement, the ati now has 82 participants. the ati requires each participant to eliminate customs duties and consolidate them at zero rate on the basis of the most favoured nation principle for all covered information technology (it) products. the exemption from customs duties granted by the participants in the ati has played an important role in the enormous development and expansion of trade that the sector has experienced over the almost 20 years of the application of the ati. the expansion of the trips agreement is a historic milestone, the first major agreement to reduce customs duties since the establishment of the wto, and has enormous potential for job creation and the promotion of gdp growth. it is important that the european parliament approves it and it is important to stress the importance of more member states signing it so that the eu can benefit fully from it.
‒ the itc requires each participant to eliminate customs duties and consolidate them at zero rate on the basis of the most favoured nation principle for all covered it products. on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached for an additional list of 201 it products. annual trade in these 201 products is valued at over $1.3 billion a year and represents about 10% of total world trade today. as a result of these negotiations, around 65% of tariff lines will be completely eliminated by 1 july 2016. in 2019, virtually all imports of the relevant products will be exempt from customs duties. the eu exports €189 billion in products covered by the expansion of the ati, a figure that is expected to increase after the elimination of customs duties. the agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who rely on imported components. the expansion of the trips agreement is the first major agreement for the reduction of customs duties since the establishment of the wto and has enormous potential for job creation and for promoting gdp growth.
‒ the first information technology agreement (ita) was signed at the singapore ministerial conference and entered into force in 1997. although initially only 29 wto member states signed the agreement, the ati now has 82 participants. the ati requires each participant to eliminate customs duties, on the basis of the most-favoured-nation principle, for all covered information technology (it) products. the exemption from customs duties granted by the participants in the ita played an important role in the development and expansion of trade that the sector has experienced, with trade in the sector quadrupling. the eu exports €189 billion in products covered by the expansion of the ati, a figure that will increase after the total elimination of customs duties. this agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who rely on imported components. however, in some sectors there may also be increased competition. the expansion of the itc is a historic milestone, with enormous potential for job creation and for promoting the growth of the union's gdp. i agree with the rapporteur's position and therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ in may 2012, six countries proposed to extend the list of products covered by the agreement (eu, usa, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica). the products covered by the agreement include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products, including magnetic resonance imaging machines, machine tools for the manufacture of integrated circuits, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. the ati requires each participant to eliminate customs duties and consolidate them at zero rate on the basis of the most favoured nation principle for all covered information technology (it) products. the itc covers some 200 tariff headings, including computers, telephones, but also inputs, components and machinery for the production of it articles. this agreement is part of the wider picture of free trade agreements and is essentially designed to give a new boost to the hegemony of the large multinationals, which are seeking to strengthen their control of the market either by increasing turnover with a view to sales or by ensuring absolute dominance of knowledge and research through 'intellectual property rights'. we're against it.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the dangers of new drugs require rapid and concerted action by states at european level. when a new substance is detected, the member state should inform europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which will also assess the risk to public health and associated crime. at the end of the procedure, they may request member states to take control or prohibition measures. although parliament's involvement is unnecessary given the purely technical content of this decision , parliament must be consulted and give its opinion. the substance had already been banned and, given its enormous toxicity and associated deaths, it is suggested that the ban should be maintained and parliament approves.
‒ the report proposes approval to subject substances to control measures provided for by law, by virtue of its obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) -pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) is a psychomotor stimulant that was first registered in the eu in 2011. it's a derivative of the synthetic cathinone commonly referred to as a new psychoactive substance. α-pvp is a potent blocker of the norepinephrine and dopamine transporter and clinical research suggests that the effects of α-pvp will be similar to those of mdpv, methamphetamine and cocaine. once the submission to eu control measures has been approved, in accordance with decision 2005/387/jha (on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances) of 10 may 2005, member states will have to legislate on the matter within 12 months of the decision. this implementing decision allows the authorities of the member states to take the measures deemed necessary to prevent the sale of such substances. we voted in favour.
in september 2015, following a request from the commission and 17 member states, an assessment of the risks posed by the consumption, manufacture and trafficking of the new psychoactive substance α-pvp, as well as the involvement of organised crime and the possible consequences of control measures that would be applied to that substance, was requested. since α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant, it has been detected in the 28 member states, as well as in turkey and norway, and in eight member states where α-pvp has been detected, a total of 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications have been reported. on the basis of the conclusions of the risk assessment report, the commission considers that there are grounds for subjecting this substance to control measures across the union and that the acute toxicity of α-pvp can cause serious harm to human health. i am therefore in favour of subjecting α-pvp to control measures and criminal sanctions in accordance with their respective legislation.
‒ the report proposes approval to subject substances to control measures provided for by law, by virtue of its obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) -pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) is a psychomotor stimulant that was first registered in the eu in 2011. it's a derivative of the synthetic cathinone commonly referred to as a new psychoactive substance. α-pvp is a potent blocker of the norepinephrine and dopamine transporter and clinical research suggests that the effects of α-pvp will be similar to those of mdpv, methamphetamine and cocaine. once the submission to eu control measures has been approved, in accordance with decision 2005/387 / jha (on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances) of 10 may 2005, member states will have to legislate on the matter within 12 months of the decision. this implementing decision allows the authorities of the member states to take the measures they deem necessary to prevent the sale of such substances. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the decision referred to in the previous paragraph concerns the continuation of the application of control measures on the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- (((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) -pentan-1-one. in this connection, the european commission and the european council have established, in a debate, that the administration of medicinal products containing the substance is the cause of a large number of deaths and poisonings. it is therefore essential to strengthen the control of the entry into circulation of new chemicals. in line with the position of the commission and the council and in agreement with the position of the rapporteur-designate, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ i voted in favour of approving the council proposal to subject the new psychoactive substance a-pvp to control measures, taking into account council decision 2005/387/jha of 10 may 2005 on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, and in particular article 8 (3) thereof.
in writing. - i approve the council's decision to subject this new psychoactive substance to strict control measures.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 189b of the ec treaty. the psychoactive substance α-pvp is an extremely potent psychostimulant and has been verified for use in all 28 member states as well as in turkey and norway. the sad and alarming figures of 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications in eight member states linked to the use of this psychoactive substance call for immediate, firm and concerted action by the european union. it is therefore essential to create a uniform framework for the control of this substance in order to avoid the emergence of obstacles to the enforcement of the act in cross-border terms as well as in relation to judicial cooperation, while also protecting against the risks that the use and availability of this substance may entail. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ α-pvp is a potent blocker of the norepinephrine and dopamine transporter and clinical research suggests that the effects of α-pvp will be similar to those of mdpv, methamphetamine and cocaine. the report proposes approval to subject substances to control measures provided for by law, by virtue of its obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. once the submission to eu control measures has been approved, in accordance with decision 2005/387/jha (on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances) of 10 may 2005, member states will have to legislate on the matter within 12 months of the decision. this implementing decision allows the authorities of the member states to take the measures deemed necessary to prevent the sale of such substances. we supported it.
‒ the 2010 hns convention establishes the strict liability of the ship owner in the case of the carriage of hydrocarbons and hazardous and noxious substances (hns) for damage arising from incidents related to the carriage of these substances on board the ship. it provides for the obligation of the owner to take out insurance to cover his liability for damage caused under the convention and a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who suffer damage as a result of the nhs maritime transport, if those persons have not been fully and properly compensated by the ship owner or the insurer. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the nhs convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents caused by vessels carrying nhs within the eu. an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of an accident. it is therefore in the interest of the union to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea.
‒ the 1996 hns convention and the 2010 protocol to the hns convention have not yet entered into force, the latter establishing the objective liability of the shipowner, in the case of the carriage of hns, for damage resulting from incidents related to this carriage. more importantly, it creates a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who suffer damage as a result of hns' shipping, if such persons have not been fully and properly compensated by the shipowner and the insurance company. the total amount of compensation available amounts to approximately eur 310 million.
‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the latest of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions governing liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of these substances, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. the convention provides: - for the strict liability of the shipowner for damage caused by incidents; - for the obligation of the shipowner to take out insurance or other financial security to cover his liability for damage under the convention; - for the creation of a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who have suffered damage as a result of maritime transport if they have not been fully and adequately compensated by the shipowner and the insurer. there is some discrepancy between the directive that exists in the eu for the same subject and the convention. it is considered to be in the eu's interest to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of these substances by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission. we voted in favour.
‒ i have voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. as stated by the rapporteur, the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure accountability and to provide adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of harmful and dangerous substances by sea, ensuring a uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents within the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents.
‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the last of the imo conventions governing liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including lng and lpg, which has not yet been ratified. in view of the experience gained with similar international regimes in the area of liability for damage caused by other maritime transport activities, in particular the transport of oil in oil tankers, the imo has adopted this international agreement as amended by the 2010 hns protocol. the convention includes: - the liability of the ship owner in the case of hns transport for damage arising from incidents related to its transport; - the obligation of the ship owner to take out insurance or other financial guarantee to cover its liability for damage; - the creation of a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who suffer damage as a result of hns transport. the aim is to ratify the convention and eliminate legal conflict with community law, so as to alleviate the damage to people and communities affected by spills of these substances at sea. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to ensure that the principle of conferring powers on the eu under article 5 (1) teu is respected and that the court of justice's established case-law that 'the choice of the legal basis for a community act must be based on objective elements which are capable of judicial review, including, in particular, the purpose and content of the act' is respected. as the proposal for a council decision aims to authorise member states to ratify or accede, on behalf of the union, to the 2010 hns protocol and subsequently to be bound by the 2010 hns convention, and as the latter covers not only cases of environmental damage (by applying the principles of preventive action and the polluter-pays principle) but also cases of non-environmental damage caused by the transport of certain substances by sea, the appropriate legal basis for the proposal is articles 100 (2), 192 (1) and 218 (6) (a) (v) tfeu.
‒ we are in the presence of a report on the same subject already dealt with in report a-0191/2016 (accession to the 2010 protocol to the hns convention), with a view to adopting uniform international rules regarding liability and compensation in the event of accidents caused by vessels carrying hns in the territory of the eu, although in this case, specifically, on the aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. in this case too, it was decided to draw up an interim report with a view to requesting a more in-depth discussion on this matter with the commission and the council, in particular as regards the overlaps between the recast brussels i regulation and the 2010 hns convention, provided that the procedural rules applicable to claims for compensation and to legal actions under the convention before the courts of the states parties are at stake, and to ensure that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common eu rules are not adversely affected by any international commitments entered into by the union or its member states, as can be read in the document. i therefore voted in favour of its approval.
‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the latest of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions governing liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. it is considered to be in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission. the commission should therefore be able to conclude that the 2010 hns convention is not compatible with the internal market.
‒ the 2010 hns convention establishes the strict liability of the ship owner in the case of the carriage of hydrocarbons and hazardous and noxious substances (hns) for damage arising from incidents related to the carriage of these substances on board the ship. it provides for the obligation of the owner to take out insurance to cover his liability for damage caused under the convention and a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who suffer damage as a result of the nhs maritime transport, if such persons have not been fully and properly compensated by the ship owner or the insurer. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the nhs convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of an accident caused by vessels carrying nhs within the eu. an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of an accident. it is therefore in the interest of the union to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea.
‒ the commission should ensure that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common eu rules are not adversely affected by the international commitments made by ratifying or acceding to the 2010 hns convention and take all appropriate measures to ensure that the exclusivity clause, according to which no complaint may be lodged against the owner of a ship which is not in conformity with the said convention, is fully respected by the member states which have ratified or acceded to the convention. i also agree with the elimination of the permanent coexistence of two maritime liability regimes.
‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the latest of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions governing liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of these substances, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. the convention provides: - for the strict liability of the shipowner for damage caused by incidents; - for the obligation of the shipowner to take out insurance or other financial security to cover his liability for damage under the convention; - for the creation of a specific compensation fund to compensate all persons who have suffered damage as a result of maritime transport if they have not been fully and properly compensated by the shipowner and the insurer. there is some discrepancy between the directive that exists in the eu for the same subject and the convention. it is considered to be in the eu's interest to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of these substances by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission. we also voted in favour.
‒ i have voted in favour of the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, in the interest of the union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. as stated by the rapporteur, the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure accountability and to provide adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of harmful and dangerous substances by sea, ensuring a uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents within the eu. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available to compensate victims of such accidents.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention, 2010) aims to ensure that adequate, prompt and effective liability and compensation for loss of or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is provided for by the hns specific international compensation fund. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the appropriateness of an exception to the general rule of application of the recast brussels i regulation, given the very specific nature of the jurisdictional regime of the hns convention and the foreseeable legal and practical difficulties associated with the application in the union of a separate jurisdictional regime by virtue of an exception to the general application of the hns convention. i understand that the purpose of this interim report is to ensure that the creation of a uniform liability regime is implemented in the most efficient and fair manner possible, without prejudicing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of union law and without creating an excessive disparity in the treatment of pollution victims and the shipping industry.
‒ i voted in favour, taking into account the importance of ensuring that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the eu's common rules are not adversely affected by the international commitments made by ratification or accession to the 2010 hns convention. it aims to ensure that the possibility of divergence between the dra and the 2010 hns convention is minimised and also to ensure that the permanent coexistence of two maritime liability regimes (one at union level and the other at international level) is eliminated, which would lead in particular to the fragmentation of union legislation. moreover, it would clearly undermine the determination of liability and could lead to lengthy and costly legal proceedings to the detriment of the victims and the shipping industry. in this context, it should be ensured that member states are required to take all necessary measures to achieve a concrete result, namely to ratify or accede to the 2010 hns convention within a reasonable period of time, which should not exceed two years from the date of entry into force of the council decision.
‒ the european parliament has received a letter with a view to the adoption of the draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states, on behalf of the union, to the 2010 protocol to the hns convention (international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea), with the exception of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. however, the european parliament opted for an interim report in order to request a more in-depth debate on this matter with the commission and the council. in fact, this interim report, which i voted in favour of, is based on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs (which determines the legal basis on which the future report should be based), and is intended to prevent the possible coexistence of two maritime liability regimes and to ensure the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common eu rules on this matter (with a wider scope) should the hns convention be ratified by the member states. there is a risk of overlap between the hns convention and the european provisions on environmental liability, in particular as regards its scope, environmental damage and preventive measures to minimise it.
‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is the latest of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions governing liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), which has not yet been ratified. it is considered to be in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission. the commission should therefore assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines, to take account in the agreement of the accession of croatia to the eu. a mere formality, then. the reasons for voting are therefore the same as those for voting on the agreement itself. the reasons for this agreement are set out in the legislative resolution annexed to it. the resolution addresses several aspects which show, taken as a whole, that this agreement is inseparable from an intricate web of geopolitical interests, embedded in a global policy of encirclement against china. in economic terms, the eu is one of the main foreign investors in the country as well as one of its main trading partners. the eu, for its part, is the fourth largest market for the philippines, accounting for 12% of exports. the framework partnership agreement is a first step towards the free trade agreement, furthering a path already begun. some of the effects of deregulation and trade liberalisation are already being felt, particularly in the european canning industry. this liberalization has mainly benefited us companies that have settled in the philippines and export to europe, exploiting cheap and duty-free local labor. we voted against it.
in writing. negotiations for a free trade agreement with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) were launched in 2007, and were suspended in 2009 and took the form of bilateral negotiation. these bilateral free trade agreements were designed as a basis for a future agreement with countries in this region, and the eu has so far finalised bilateral agreements with singapore and vietnam. the european union is the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and its fourth largest export market, accounting for 11.56% of the country's exports. the union is also the largest foreign investor in the philippines, with foreign direct investment in the country exceeding eur 6,2 billion. eu-philippines relations are currently governed by the partnership and cooperation agreement, signed in july 2012. the philippines has been benefiting from the generalised system of preferences since 2014, which gives it the possibility to export its products to the union area free of customs duties. i am voting in favour of this, because i think it is important that the european union should strengthen cooperation with the countries of south-east asia in order to move towards a trade agreement with asean.
‒ i hereby approve the european parliament legislative resolution of 8 june 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, which i therefore voted in favour of.
‒ simply adapt the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu, becoming its 28th member state. it was therefore subject to automatic accession to agreements concluded or signed prior to its accession by the other member states and the union with one or more third countries. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (fpca) between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, is one such case. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation was signed in phnom penh on 11 july 2012. since the purpose of this recommendation is to formalise the republic of croatia as a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and the philippines and since no changes to the content of the agreement are envisaged, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with two recommendations, one concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines and the other to take account in the agreement of the accession of croatia to the eu. the first recommends the approval of the agreement, the second the approval of the protocol to add croatia. the philippines is considered an example for other countries in the region in terms of human rights. unfortunately, this report is at least partial and does not take account of reality, particularly the statements by the president of the philippines on respect for human rights. the references to security and military cooperation lead us to conclude that we are talking about yet another imperial intervention designed to increase the military influence of the eu and nato in that region. we voted against it.
‒ this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines. the reasons for this agreement are set out in the legislative resolution annexed to it. the resolution addresses several aspects which show, taken as a whole, that this agreement is inseparable from an intricate web of geopolitical interests, embedded in a global policy of encirclement against china. in economic terms, the eu is one of the main foreign investors in the country as well as one of its main trading partners. the eu, for its part, is the fourth largest market for the philippines, accounting for 12% of exports. the framework partnership agreement is a first step towards the free trade agreement, furthering a path already begun. some of the effects of deregulation and trade liberalisation are already being felt, particularly in the european canning industry. this liberalization has mainly benefited us companies that have settled in the philippines and export to europe, exploiting cheap and duty-free local labor. we voted against it.
‒ negotiations for a free trade agreement with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) were launched in 2007, but were suspended in 2009 and turned into bilateral negotiations. these bilateral free trade agreements were designed as a basis for a future agreement with countries in this region, and the eu has so far finalised bilateral agreements with singapore and vietnam. the european union is the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and its fourth largest export market, accounting for 11.56% of the country's exports. the european union is also the largest foreign investor in the philippines, with foreign direct investment in the country exceeding eur 6.2 billion. eu-philippines relations are currently governed by the partnership and cooperation agreement, signed in july 2012. the philippines has been benefiting from the generalised system of preferences since 2014, which gives it the possibility to export its products to the union area free of customs duties. i am voting in favour of this because i consider it important that the european union should conclude the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu, its member states and the republic of the philippines.
‒ this document approves the european parliament legislative resolution of 8 june 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. i voted yes.
‒ the agreement with the philippines is an important step in strengthening bilateral relations between the eu and south-east asia based on universal values such as democracy and human rights. it opens the way to better political, regional and global cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, includes provisions on human rights, non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism and the international criminal court. it also includes areas of current interest such as the peace process and disaster risk management. the pca thus strengthens eu-philippines cooperation across a range of policy areas, such as migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption. in addition, the involvement of both parties in the economic and trade fields is also being strengthened. since it is in line with the objectives of creating a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework for relations between the eu countries and the asean countries (brunei darussalam, cambodia, indonesia, laos, malaysia, myanmar, the philippines, singapore, thailand and vietnam) and also has an important development component, namely strict provisions on the protection of the eu's financial interests, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with two recommendations, one concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines and the other to take account in the agreement of the accession of croatia to the eu. the first recommends the approval of the agreement, the second the approval of the protocol to add croatia. the philippines is considered an example for other countries in the region in terms of human rights. unfortunately, this report is at least partial and does not take account of reality, particularly the statements by the president of the philippines on respect for human rights. the references to security and military cooperation lead us to conclude that we are talking about yet another imperial intervention designed to increase the military influence of the eu and nato in that region. we voted against it.
‒ in terms of international and domestic human rights law, the philippines is a model for other countries in the region, having ratified eight of the nine major human rights conventions. the economy is still suffering the negative effects of typhoon haiyan, which has worsened food insecurity and pushed an additional million people into poverty, according to united nations estimates. i agree that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promoting peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, as well as assisting the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and implementing effective policies to combat climate change.
in writing. the resolution addresses the importance of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. this framework agreement is inseparable from the deadlock in the eu-asean agreement. in this context, the eu's approach is to conclude partnership agreements with countries in the region. the philippines is being held up as an example for other countries in the region to follow in terms of human rights. this is particularly clear in the light of the recent statements by the new president of the philippines on the death penalty in the country. reference is made to the agreement on strengthening defence cooperation with the usa. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. it also mentions, in what seems to be a provocative act, the creation by the philippines in this maritime region of maritime and air infrastructure that will be accessible to japanese, american and vietnamese boats and aircraft. aspects which show that this agreement is inseparable from an interlocking web of geopolitical interests, embedded in a global policy of encirclement against china. the economic aspects - trade liberalization - are added to this. we voted against it.
in writing. negotiations for a free trade agreement with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) were launched in 2007, and were suspended in 2009 and took the form of bilateral negotiation. these bilateral free trade agreements were designed as a basis for a future agreement with countries in this region, and the eu has so far finalised bilateral agreements with singapore and vietnam. the european union is the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and its fourth largest export market, accounting for 11.56% of the country's exports. the union is also the largest foreign investor in the philippines, with foreign direct investment in the country exceeding eur 6,2 billion. eu-philippines relations are currently governed by the partnership and cooperation agreement, signed in july 2012. the philippines has been benefiting from the generalised system of preferences since 2014, which gives it the possibility to export its products to the union area free of customs duties. i am voting in favour of this, because i think it is important that the european union should strengthen cooperation with the countries of south-east asia in order to move towards a trade agreement with asean.
‒ i welcome the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. i voted in favour of this report because it considers that the eu should continue to provide financial support to the philippines, promote peace, poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, security and judicial reform, disaster relief and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change. the report encourages the philippine government to continue to promote progress in eliminating corruption and promoting human rights, recalling that the country has been the target of barbaric terrorist attacks. the document calls on the eu and its member states to work with the philippines to promote the exchange of information and provide support in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
‒ the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, security and judicial reform, as well as assistance in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change. this agreement is an incentive for the philippine government to continue on the path of eliminating corruption and promoting human rights.
in this report, the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines, and recommends that the eu continue the support, assistance and financial capacity building provided to the philippines so far. the eu should continue to support the country in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, assisting the country in preparing for natural disasters, as well as in recovery and implementing effective policies to combat climate change. it is recalled that the philippines has been a member of the international coalition against terrorism since 2001 and as such the eu and its member states should enhance the exchange of information with the philippines and provide the necessary support to strengthen the capacity of the philippine government in the international fight against terrorism and extremism. in agreeing with the measures proposed in this report which aim to continue the strengthening of the bilateral relations established with the philippines, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with two recommendations, one concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines and the other to take account in the agreement of the accession of croatia to the eu. the first recommends the approval of the agreement, the second the approval of the protocol to add croatia. the philippines is considered an example for other countries in the region in terms of human rights. unfortunately, this report is at least partial and does not take account of reality, particularly the statements by the president of the philippines on respect for human rights. the references to security and military cooperation lead us to conclude that we are talking about yet another imperial intervention designed to increase the military influence of the eu and nato in that region. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ as i have said on previous occasions, tunisia is a special country in that region and it was there that the arab spring began, and it is so far the only successful example of the same arab spring. tunisia has called for greater cooperation and we must live up to our responsibilities. this aid package, which i fully support, will help tunisia to continue to make a sound democratic transition, to implement the reforms needed to modernise its economy and to develop relations with its partners, especially the european union, with which it is currently negotiating a trade agreement.
‒ tunisia is currently experiencing major difficulties. it has been repeatedly targeted by bombings and terrorist attacks that have deeply affected key economic sectors of the country, such as tourism. growth, which was projected to be 3% in 2015, was revised down to 0.5% in 2016 and the average unemployment rate is 15%, with 20% for women and 28.6% for young higher education graduates. it is very important that tunisia succeeds and counters all those who want to destabilize it. europe must therefore show solidarity and be determined to accompany and support tunisia in its development through very concrete actions that directly benefit the people of the country, of which the macrofinancial assistance is a good example and the eur 500 million is an important aid.
‒ tunisia is currently experiencing major difficulties. it has been repeatedly targeted by bombings and terrorist attacks that have affected key economic sectors in the country, such as tourism. growth, which was projected to be 3% in 2015, was revised down to 0.5% in 2016 and the average unemployment rate is 15%, with 20% for women and 28.6% for young graduates. in addition, the regional security context is volatile, in particular because of the country's border with libya. in august 2015, the european commission provided a second macro-financial assistance programme for tunisia, totalling eur 500 million, to be provided in the form of medium-term loans on the financial markets. this report states that the 'assistance programme will support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable investment climate'. the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be developed further, in respect for the sovereign will and choices of each state, is not in question. however, this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we reject. for the record, our vote is against.
‒ since the arab spring, tunisia has been the target of terrorist attacks, which aim to destabilise the country and its main economic sector, tourism. economic growth is below expectations and the average unemployment rate is 15%. in view of the efforts being made by tunisia, i am in favour of financial support from the union and other initiatives aimed at supporting the population.
‒ relations between the eu and the republic of tunisia have been developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. under the regular cooperation programme, the union made available eur 524 million in the form of grants; the tunisian authorities and the imf have concluded an agreement totalling usd 1,5 billion; the eib also provided loans to tunisia totalling eur 277 million under two separate programmes and eur 1 338 million from the european investment bank. however, and in parallel to this political transition process, the country's economy has been affected by ongoing internal disturbances and a fragile international environment, such as the various terrorist attacks in 2015 aimed at disrupting the consolidation of the political transition. in view of the above context, this report states that the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia should be subject to economic policy conditions to be laid down in a memorandum of understanding. in order to ensure uniform conditions of implementation, and for reasons of efficiency, the commission should be empowered to negotiate those conditions with the tunisian authorities under the supervision of the committee of representatives of the member states. i voted yes.
‒ tunisia has succeeded in consolidating its democratic transition. it has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, a well-established judicial system and independent media. however, tunisia is currently experiencing great difficulties. it has been the target of bombings and terrorist attacks that have deeply affected key economic sectors of the country, such as tourism. growth, which was projected to be 3% in 2015, was revised down to 0.5% in 2016, and the average unemployment rate is 15%, with 20% for women and 28.6% for young higher education graduates. it is very important that tunisia succeeds and counters all those who want to destabilize it. europe must show solidarity and be determined to accompany and support tunisia in its development. macro-financial assistance is a european financial instrument that can be mobilised to support a third state in a crisis situation. thanks to the reforms carried out in the country, tunisia is fully complying with the necessary political conditions. the european commission is therefore making available a second programme of macrofinancial assistance to tunisia totalling eur 500 million in the form of a loan.
‒ despite having succeeded in consolidating democracy as the country's political regime, tunisia continues to face serious internal security challenges, including bombings and terrorist attacks, which ultimately affect key sectors of its economy such as tourism, trade and catering. with extremely low output growth rates and high unemployment, especially among the young, skilled population, and in the face of political and security instability, i believe that additional eu support for its enormous effort to develop and consolidate democracy makes perfect sense. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the tunisian authorities to implement the reform of the fiscal and public finance system, the financial sector and the regulatory framework for trade and investment. this additional macro-financial assistance provides for a total of eur 500 million in the form of medium-term loans on the financial markets, with favourable conditions. the summit objective of this proposal being to support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable climate for employment and investment, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of the principle of international cooperation and of helping countries which are experiencing economic difficulties for various reasons. however, this cooperation must be genuine and based on respect for the sovereignty of states and their right to dispose of their resources and to choose their own development model. supporting tunisia to improve its public finances, reform its financial system, improve its regulatory framework for trade and investment, or even correct its budgetary situation is clearly outside the real cooperation we advocate. it is more like imposing reforms to impose a model based on full liberalization of the economy. these are reforms that the eu imposes on its member states and the results of which are in sight. we therefore reject this so-called aid, because it is not without conditions. it imposes on the tunisian people a model which, like here in europe, will generate more inequality and more poverty in the medium term.
‒ the proposal lays down rules against corporate tax avoidance in six specific areas, including the deductibility of interest and a clause on the taxation of income generated abroad. this legislation is aimed at situations where groups of companies take advantage of disparities between national tax systems to reduce their tax obligations. the aim is for companies to pay their taxes where they make their profits. these rules aim to identify all taxpayers liable to corporation tax in a member state, to combat cross-border tax avoidance practices and to provide a common framework for the coordinated implementation of oecd measures against base erosion and profit shifting in the national legislation of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a key directive in the european commission's action plan announced a year ago. it is intended that there will be some degree of harmonisation in the interpretation of the beps guidelines adopted in the oecd. the principle is laudable and we follow the general spirit of the measures, some of which correspond to our proposals in the assembly of the republic. however, there are aspects which distort the proposals and prevent us from voting in favour. the proposal exempts financial firms from the limitation on interest deductions. besides, there's a waiver we're not following. the oecd advocates a limit on the deduction of interest between 10 and 30%. the european commission, in its proposal, not surprisingly, opts for the upper limit. why would you do that? for whose benefit? the criterion for taxation in the country of origin is that the tax rate of the third country is less than 40% of the tax rate of the country of origin. it will therefore not apply to most european cases, such as ireland, the netherlands or even, in some sectors, switzerland or luxembourg. this legislation will conflict with other legislation which is being made on the consolidated taxation matter. in other words, we are talking about isolated, fragmented, and unjoint initiatives. finally, nothing is said about tax havens.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance practices that directly affect the internal market. aggressive tax planning represents a significant loss of revenue for states, which lose their capacity to invest and create jobs. this report represents an important step towards a european union response to the fight against tax evasion and avoidance which cannot be tackled by member states in isolation.
‒ tax avoidance practices can have a negative impact on the full functioning of the internal market and social justice. in this context, it is essential that member states take appropriate measures to discourage tax avoidance practices and to ensure fair and effective taxation, which is carried out in a consistent and coordinated manner. in this regard, this proposal for a directive provides for the adoption of measures to combat tax evasion. it provides, inter alia, for measures to prevent the erosion of tax bases, to promote the transparency of profits earned by companies and their transfer to tax havens, to introduce a mechanism for the resolution of cross-border tax disputes and to implement a european tax number as a vehicle for a more efficient and reliable automatic exchange of information. in order to ensure its full effectiveness, the implementation of that directive should be accompanied by an impact assessment to ensure that tax administrations have the appropriate means. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a directive, since it is essential that the union should define common rules to combat tax avoidance.
‒ according to an oecd study, aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals costs state budgets around the world between usd 100 and 240 billion each year, representing between 4% and 10% of global corporate tax revenues. it is becoming clear that this reality represents a significant loss of income for states and reduces their capacity to invest in promoting employment, combating poverty and developing effective health systems. this report, which i voted for, states that fair and effective corporate taxation should become the cornerstone of the single market and calls for companies to pay their taxes where they earn their profits. to this end, the report decided to establish precise and mandatory definitions of the conditions for proving that a multinational is well established in a country, taking into account that multinational companies are often organized in such a way as to transfer their profits to tax havens without having paid any tax. the document thus states that the ep should be the body responsible for monitoring the effective implementation of this directive in the 28 member states. it should also be able to carry out an independent evaluation to measure its effectiveness.
‒ the main objective of the report is to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits. the rapporteur has decided to insert a precise and binding definition in the criteria which must be met for a multinational to prove that it is established in a given country. this is the only way to make them pay their taxes fairly. the report also reinforces the role of the european parliament, which should be the body responsible for checking whether this directive is being implemented effectively in the 28 member states. it should also be able to carry out an independent evaluation of its effectiveness.
‒ recent studies by the oecd (organization for economic cooperation and development) show that states lose between usd 100 and 240 million in corporate tax revenues as a result of aggressive tax optimisation by multinational companies. this situation severely undermines the capacity of public investment to promote growth solutions for member states. if we are to achieve an effective single market and a robust and reliable economic and financial union, member states need to agree on european tax harmonisation that is fair and effective for citizens and businesses. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to establish rules to strengthen the average level of protection against aggressive tax planning in the internal market. the main changes were: the obligation for companies to pay their taxes at the place where they earn their profits, by establishing conditions proving that they are being implemented in a given country; and the clarification and standardization of patent legislation, which no longer allows companies to artificially reduce their profits. both measures are extremely positive and make an essential contribution to the fight against tax evasion and fraud.
‒ the objectives of this directive are laudable. however, as is evident with each passing day, the grand design announced by the commission in 2015, at the height of the tax scandals and the fury of public opinion, is facing reality. in the name of pragmatism, that is to say, in the name of the hypocrisy of the governments of the countries which have created the conditions for exempting the large multinationals from paying taxes, we have today a minimalist proposal from the committee which does not correspond in the least to the legitimate expectations of the citizens. we support the report which called for the adoption of the maximum standards within the framework of the oecd proposals and not the other way around. we don't understand the exemption of the financial system. the commission's criteria for the implementation of the switchover are ineffective. we also do not see how this proposal can be consistent with other proposals that have been promised, such as the consolidation of the common tax base or the list of tax havens. in other words, this directive seems to us more like a propaganda tool, intended to make citizens understand that something is being done to make everything look the same.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bayet report because i agree with the principle that parliament should use all the means at its disposal to influence the council in the fight against crossborder tax evasion which cannot be effectively carried out by member states alone. this report goes beyond the commission's proposal to achieve a minimum essential level of coordination within the union and calls for greater coordination within the union's legal and fiscal framework. i would stress that this type of measure is crucial, not only to combat tax evasion, particularly by multinationals, but also and above all to restore the confidence of european citizens in their institutions.
‒ the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners is a matter that was first investigated by the european parliament. very slowly more facts were coming to light, including through a devastating report from the us senate itself. unfortunately, there is still a lot of uncertainty, too much responsibility to be cleared up. even within the european union and in strict compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, several member states have not wanted to cooperate with this parliament. or even each other. unfortunately, too, many of the recommendations that have been made have not been followed up. the concerns of almost ten years ago remain relevant. it is not just a question of finding out the truth, but also of preventing such flagrant violations of fundamental rights from happening again. all the more important as we seek again today a balance between security and individual freedoms. i think that this resolution is sometimes over-exaggerated in its language and even used for ideological propaganda. however, its contents remain true and the european parliament cannot shirk its responsibilities. i therefore support this resolution.
‒ more than a year after the publication of the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, i regret the lack or slow pace of investigations, the reduced accountability and the excessive reliance on state secrecy. none of the member states has carried out comprehensive and effective investigations aimed at bringing to justice the perpetrators of crimes under international and national law. joint counter-terrorism efforts must respect obligations under international law and the us must continue investigations and cooperate with all requests from european countries concerning the cia programme.
‒ this resolution deals with the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. the resolution deplores the fact that the investigations have been hampered by various obstacles, that too much time has passed since the start of the investigations, and that there has been no objective clarification of the facts and no convictions. it reiterated its strong condemnation of torture (enhanced interrogation techniques), which is prohibited under international law. expresses its deep concern at the 'apathy' shown by the member states and the eu institutions towards the recognition of the multiple violations of fundamental rights and torture that took place on european soil between 2001 and 2006. but there's a lot that remains to be said. much is left out of the resolution. the united states is an imperialist power which considers itself above any legal obligation, which disrespects international law and which, ironically, has continuously occupied several sovereign countries in the name of defending human rights. the current us president, barack obama, despite all the promises, has not yet closed the guantanamo prison. there is no guarantee that in the present context of murderous wars in which the united states is the main aggressor, similar events or even more perverse and threatening developments to human dignity will not be taking place. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ the european parliament, through multiple resolutions and the creation of the temporary committee, strongly condemned the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. given the pillars on which the european project is based, namely the rule of law, i also believe that no reason justifies the violation of human rights. however, i cannot support a report which makes the separation of powers, the cornerstone of the rule of law, unclear and which repeatedly refers to and suggests clear interference by the political system in the judicial system of the member states.
the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take effective action to combat it. it reiterates its strong condemnation of the use of forced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited by international law and which violate, inter alia, the rights to liberty, security, human treatment, except torture, the presumption of innocence, a fair trial, legal advice and equal protection under the law. it refers to the 'apathy' of the member states and the european institutions in recognising the multiple violations of fundamental rights and torture that have taken place on european soil. more than 50 countries, including portugal, have provided cover for the secret programme of extrajudicial transfer of prisoners suspected of terrorism on cia flights, a demonstration of the us as an imperialist power that acts in defiance of international law and that persists as one of the countries that most promotes the violation of human rights. the military base at guantanamo and its concentration camp where the most barbaric practices have been forced upon detainees, most of whom are innocent and have not even been charged, are examples of this. it is essential to condemn the actions of the united states and not a word is said about this. the abstention vote is therefore taken.
‒ parliament called for thorough investigations into the participation of eu member states in the cia's secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme. one of the studies revealed that a number of member states, their authorities, officials and intelligence and security services were complicit in the cia's programme of harsh detention and extraordinary rendition, sometimes in a corrupt manner, on the basis of the payment of significant amounts by the cia in return for their cooperation. this report strongly condemns the use of enhanced interrogation techniques which violate the rights to liberty, security, humane treatment, the presumption of innocence, fair trials, legal advice and fair production under the law. the report also reiterates that, in the specific situation of guantanamo bay, criminal proceedings under civil jurisdiction are the best way to resolve the situation of the detainees, and urges the us authorities not to apply the death penalty to them. i abstained because i think there are still areas which can be improved and investigated at this level.
in writing. ‒ this was a difficult vote, but we managed to convey the idea that, one year after the publication of the us senate study, we remain concerned about the apathy shown by the member states and the european institutions in recognising the multiple violations of fundamental rights and torture that took place on european soil between 2001 and 2006, in investigating these violations and in taking action to bring the accomplices and those responsible to justice. transatlantic cooperation based on common values such as freedom and security, democracy and fundamental human rights must remain a key priority in the eu's external relations. transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism must respect fundamental rights, freedoms and the protection of privacy as guaranteed by eu law.
in writing. - this resolution was adopted by 329 votes in favour, 299 against and 49 abstentions, including my vote. i decided to abstain because i wanted to make it clear that i strongly condemn the use of enhanced interrogation techniques, and also considering that the european union is based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and international law, not only in its internal policies but also in its external dimension, and that this commitment, reinforced by the entry into force of the eu charter of fundamental rights and the process of accession to the european convention on human rights, must be present in all its fields of action, as can be read in the text of the adopted resolution. i also note that the council of europe has decided to close its inquiry and that the inquiry of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs into this matter has not brought to light anything new or relevant, so it seems to me more appropriate that the national parliaments, the national/european judiciary (in particular the european court of human rights) should promote any criminal investigations/actions and/or provide victims with legal remedies.
in writing. the resolution deplores the fact that investigations into the use of torture by the cia have been hampered by the fact that too much time has passed since the inception of the investigations without objective clarification of the facts and the resulting convictions. more than 50 countries, including portugal, have provided cover for the secret cia's extrajudicial transfer of terrorism suspects on flights, launched by the bush administration after the september 11, 2001 attacks. the secret operations consisted of the abduction, transport and torture of terrorism suspects in clandestine detention centres, with the collaboration of several european governments - the united kingdom, germany, sweden - and american allies in africa and the middle east. the united states is an imperialist power which considers itself above any legal obligation, which disrespects international law and which, ironically, has continuously occupied several sovereign countries in the name of defending human rights. justice must be done and those responsible, including the us administration, which unfortunately remains unpunished in this report, must be condemned at national and international level, at the level of the united nations.
‒ space capabilities for european security and defence are important, and in some cases vital, for a variety of situations, from everyday peacetime use to managing crises and more serious security challenges. satellites can be used to more effectively assess and identify illegal immigrant flows, their routes and to identify embarkation zones to initiate procedures more quickly and save more lives. the development and maintenance of space capabilities for the security and defence of europe require effective cooperation and synergies between member states, european and international institutions. national governments and the union should improve access to space capabilities in terms of satellite communications and ensure european non-dependence in critical space technologies and access to space. it is essential to strengthen the coordination of spatial systems used in a fragmented manner by the different member states in order to anticipate as quickly as possible a disruption of the different applications. the eu should continue to seek to ensure the highest degree of spatial and military autonomy. i therefore support this report.
‒ the eu must strengthen its role as a guarantor of security at home and abroad, ensuring stability in neighbouring countries and globally, and contributing to the fight against security challenges, including those arising from terrorism on its territory and beyond, including through support to third countries in the fight against terrorism and its root causes. space capabilities and services play an important role, inter alia, in the context of european security and defence in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
‒ this report addresses the development of european space capabilities for european security and defence. in short, the aim is to use space capabilities to serve the militaristic and warmongering policy of the european union. space capabilities and services are considered to play an important role in a number of areas, such as external action, border management, maritime security or energy security. it is argued, contradictorily, that space should not be militarized, but it is also considered that space capabilities should not be restricted to civilian activities, but should cover security and defence, i.e. militarization. the security dimension of the copernicus programme is underlined. the space sector is included in a new overall eu strategy on foreign and security policy. the dangers of cyber war and hybrid war are identified - to justify the arms race it is necessary to brandish dangers, create enemies, to which the eu will have to respond. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. these are more than sufficient reasons for our vote against, which we also justified by our intervention in the plenary.
‒ the increasing proliferation of space technology, with its use for both military and increasingly civilian purposes, such as gps, weather forecasting, fire detection, among others, makes the space sector a strategic area of utmost importance for the european union. given the potential of exploiting space capabilities, the european union should seek to exploit them in an efficient and sustainable manner, both in the context of security and defence policy and in other european union policies in areas such as external action, border management, agriculture, the environment, energy security, disaster management, maritime security, among others. in this context, it would also be important to equate the development of security and defence-related space capabilities to the next generations of the galileo and copernicus systems. i am voting in favour of this because i consider the exploitation of space capability to be a sector of the utmost importance in the framework of the common security and defence policy.
‒ the report continues the militaristic and warmongering policy of the european union, this time through space capabilities as an important instrument for external action, for border management, for internal, maritime and energy security and to improve the development of the european military industrial complex. calls for enhanced eu cooperation (and submission) with the us and nato on future space capabilities/services for the csdp. it supports continued investment in space, security and defence agencies and the use of dual-use space technologies to contribute to the development of the european defence industry. the whole report is imbued with the idea of putting security and defence policies at the centre of the european union's policies, particularly its foreign policy, and it goes further in the aggressive nature of this process of european capitalist integration and the concept of 'strong europe'. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and demanding, inside and outside the union, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states. the report calls for a joint strategy by all member states and a coordinated response. the document also considers that space capabilities and services play an important role in this european defence context, helping in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, the environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport. the report states that national governments and the union should improve access to space capabilities in terms of satellite communication, space situational awareness, precision navigation and earth observation, and ensure european non-dependence in critical space technologies and access to space. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ space capabilities and services play an important role, among other areas, in the context of european security and defence. current and future space services and capabilities will provide member states and the union with an enhanced operational capacity for the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
‒ the development of european space capabilities is of paramount importance to the union and its member states, as technological progress increases the number of innovative applications with everyday applicability and safety. the eu has developed programmes such as galileo and copernicus, which have enabled not only precise positioning, covering the needs of observations made from the ground, but also other plans for acquiring new communication capabilities. the existing programmes require sustained and high investment and are also extremely useful for missions under the common security and defence policy. the security purposes they serve are varied, including border surveillance, migration flows and maritime and air transport. promotion and cooperation within the eu, as well as the exchange of experience and information with external partners, will allow improving detail aspects and maximising the benefits. in recognition of the importance that these programmes can play in the safety of citizens, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the key message of this report is that space capabilities should also be put to the service of defence and security. space capabilities and services are considered to play an important role including in security and defence issues, covering here several areas where these space capabilities can play an important role: external action, border management, maritime security, energy security, to name a few. the argument of preventing humanitarian disasters is used to conceal the real purpose of strengthening the security and defence capability of space satellites. hence our vehement opposition.
‒ the eu's space activities are of paramount importance for scientific and technical progress, as well as for innovation, economic growth, job creation, enterprise and new opportunities. in this context, the european commission should present a comprehensive and forward-looking strategy to ensure that europe is a leader in space technologies and services in world markets in the short, medium and long term, independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry. it should also promote the internationalisation of european space companies, in particular smes, through better access to finance to support the competitiveness of the european space industry, as well as specific actions at eu level enabling europe to access space autonomously. the eu and the member states should, in cooperation with the private sector, step up their efforts to stimulate skills and entrepreneurship and to attract students from technical universities, young scientists and entrepreneurs to the space sector, which will help maintain leadership capacity in space science and prevent brain drain to other parts of the world.
‒ over the next two decades, the economic and social benefits of the action plan on global navigation satellite system applications are expected to amount to around eur 60 to 90 billion, with the potential annual turnover of the downstream earth observation services market by 2030 expected to be approximately eur 2.8 billion, of which more than 90% stemming from the copernicus programme. i agree that autonomous access is of strategic importance for the eu in having highly reliable and accurate positioning and timing information as well as earth observation data.
in writing. ‒ we advocate a space policy based on deepening cooperation between european countries and beyond. but we have always said that this space policy should be exclusively focused on peaceful purposes and should exclude any use of space for military purposes. the criticism of the militarization of space and the abandonment of any arms race in space was a position which the majority of this parliament has never taken. this is the case once again with this resolution, which explicitly takes up and defends militarization alongside the development of the space market. it is revealing how the european union looks at space. it's also dangerous. as we said in the debate, the endless adventure of mankind to discover that great book which is continually open, of which galileo spoke, cannot serve to prolong on earth the wicked, aggressive and oppressive order which some have been imposing. on the contrary, it should help us solve problems, not create problems. an adventure to free, not to oppress. i therefore vote against.
‒ space capabilities play an important role in particular in the framework of response to crisis situations, such as natural disasters, in the efficient management of natural resources, in the provision of services, such as energy and transport, and in the field of security and defence. the activity of the european space industry is characterised by its heavy dependence on institutional initiative and, in comparative terms, by its much lower budgetary availability compared to countries such as the usa, china or russia. the eu space industry market is overly fragmented, facing policy barriers and barriers imposed by various national governments, as well as technical barriers and a lack of skilled labour for the sector. i am voting in favour of this because i believe it is important that the european union should make efforts to adopt a common strategy for space, particularly in the development of the space market.
‒ this report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy to ensure that europe is a leader in space technologies and services, as they guarantee european autonomy, innovation, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs, businesses and new opportunities in both upstream and downstream markets. the document also draws attention to the fact that the future development of eu space programmes must be user-oriented and driven by the user needs of the public, private and scientific sectors.
in december 2015, during the world trade organization (wto) ministerial conference in nairobi, 53 members reached agreement on the expansion of the information technology agreement, which includes a timetable to eliminate tariffs on 201 it products. annual trade in these products accounts for approximately 10% of total world trade. under this agreement, some 65% of the tariff lines will be completely eliminated by 1 july this year. in 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty free. considering that the eu's space activities are of great importance for scientific and technical progress, as well as for innovation, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs, businesses and new opportunities, and that access to this market by the eu is of particular strategic importance, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this document is another milestone in the affirmation of the path of privatisation of the sector and the strengthening of the monopoly control of the large multinationals, to the detriment of investment and the public interest. you talk about deindustrialization. we must remind the forgotten and alert the unwary that the need for reindustrialisation, which is now being talked about, has been the result of years of pursuing an agenda of dismantling industry that was in the public sphere, with the obsessive aim of reducing jobs and workers' rights. the document does not even mention this, it omits and rejects it, precisely because its obstinate aim is to monopolize the sector in the sphere of large european capital, which has on its agenda the increase of profits and the reduction of labour costs, at any cost.
‒ venezuela is currently facing a deplorable political situation and a lack of respect for democratic values, which is manifested in the interference of the judiciary in political power through decisions limiting the powers legitimated by the opposition majority vote in the national assembly, the existence of some 2 000 people in prison, under house arrest or on parole for political reasons. in addition, there is a serious humanitarian crisis caused by food and medicine shortages, with 75% of medicines considered essential by the who not available. the poverty rate has doubled and the lack of foresight in basic infrastructure and ineffective governance have led to a severe economic and social crisis. i support this resolution which condemns the serious deterioration of the situation in venezuela in terms of democracy, human rights and socioeconomic conditions, as well as the growing climate of political and social instability, and i endorse the calls for a situation of stability in venezuela, urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a solution to the economic and energy crisis and food shortages.
‒ the government of venezuela should immediately release all political prisoners and respect the constitution, including the legal procedures provided for in the venezuelan basic law on the removal of the president. in venezuela, some 2,000 people are in prison, under house arrest or on parole for political reasons. the country is experiencing a serious humanitarian crisis caused by food and medicine shortages and the government is blocking humanitarian aid from entering the country and boycotting the various international initiatives to help civil society, such as caritas and other ngos. i agree therefore that it is an absolute priority to reduce the current high levels of impunity, which reinforce and promote the escalation of violence and insecurity in the country.
in writing. - this shameful and unacceptable resolution is adopted at a time when the venezuelan opposition is engaged in a process of dialogue with the government, promoted by unasul, and when the permanent council of the organization of american states, with the support of the right wing of several countries in the region, has approved a declaration supporting this initiative and appreciating the efforts of dialogue between the parties, within the framework of respect for the sovereignty of venezuela. the european right and social democracy, however, insist on confrontation, destabilization and interference. this resolution is completely contrary to the dialogue effort which these and other regional structures (alba, aec) are promoting and making use of and which federica moguerini has just signed and supported. a resolution which embarrasses and compromises the institutional relations between the european institutions and the regional structures of latin america, as well as with the republic of venezuela. a resolution that goes so far as to open the way to foreign intervention in venezuela. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ the situation in venezuela should be of concern to the entire european community, but it should also serve as an example of what are wrong public policies. venezuela is currently experiencing a serious deterioration in the situation of democracy, human rights and socioeconomic conditions, with growing political and social instability. i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution, calling on the venezuelan government to adopt a constructive attitude in accordance with the constitution and democratic principles.
in the light of the recent events in venezuela, which have been the subject of intense scrutiny by the european commission, we must not forget that thousands of migrants from madeira are living in venezuela. the venezuelan population, the resident migrants, the citizens are experiencing serious economic and social difficulties, in particular in the face of food shortages in supermarkets, systematic power cuts and stagnation of economic activity. we cannot remain indifferent, and that is why i have appealed to the commission. it is impossible to remain indifferent, especially when many of us have a great affinity with this country through the relatives and friends who live there. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because, in addition to the lack of human conditions, venezuela has been putting free trade in question and failing to respect foreign direct investment, thus putting at risk the possible trade agreement being negotiated between the european union and mercosur.
in writing. - at a time when the venezuelan opposition is engaged in a process of dialogue with the government, promoted by unasul, and when the permanent council of the oas, with the support of the right wing of several countries, has approved a declaration supporting that initiative and valuing the effort of dialogue between the parties, in the framework of respect for the sovereignty of venezuela, the right-wing majority and social democracy in the european parliament insist on voting a resolution that is absolutely contrary to the effort of dialogue that these and other regional structures (alba, aec) are promoting and valuing and that even today federica mogherini has subscribed and supported. a resolution which embarrasses and compromises the institutional relations between the european institutions and the regional structures of latin america, as well as with the republic of venezuela, since it advances with a set of 'proposals' which are nothing more than a veiled support and direct involvement in an external intervention in that country desired by the most reactionary and radical sectors. we reaffirm that it is the sole and exclusive responsibility of venezuelans to resolve their internal affairs within the constitutional and legal framework of a sovereign country which has been an example for almost two decades in terms of the democratic functioning of its institutions and participatory democracy.
‒ in its 2014 and 2015 resolutions, the european union has reiterated its concern about the situation in venezuela. the question of the violation of the principle of separation of powers, which is clear in the exercise of the national assembly, is added to these. in december 2015, the people's suffrage succeeded in shifting the balance of power in favour of the democratic opposition, which has since gathered the support of the parliamentary majority. during this period, the supreme court delivered 13 judgments that were markedly biased and voted to enforce the wishes of the incumbent executive. this totalitarian and anti-democratic modus operandi represents an increased danger for venezuela in the current context of precariousness. on the revenue side, the fall in oil prices and the slowdown in crude oil production have led to the paralysis of an economy whose oil-export-based economic model is doomed from the start. however, the maduro government refuses to implement economic reforms and to cooperate with the legislature in order to find a solution to the economic and energy crisis. in this context, my vote reflects the position of the rapporteur, who calls on the commission to negotiate the conditions for external aid in the light of the commitments to be made in the field of the rule of law and human rights.
‒ this report expresses concern at the climate of political and social instability in venezuela and the consequent serious deterioration of the democratic situation, human rights and socioeconomic conditions, and expresses concern at the current institutional impasse and the use by the executive of state powers to control the supreme court and the national electoral council in order to prevent the implementation of legislative provisions and initiatives adopted by the national assembly. we therefore call on the venezuelan government to adopt a constructive attitude, through a constitutional, peaceful and democratic solution based on dialogue, to respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers, and to release immediately the two thousand political prisoners. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ we are deeply concerned about the serious deterioration of the situation of democracy and human rights in venezuela, as well as the growing deterioration of social tension caused by the shortage of essential goods such as food and medicine. there will be no viable, peaceful and stable solution for venezuela without a constructive national dialogue between all parties involved. the only way out is a negotiated democratic solution. the government of venezuela must respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers in order to restore democratic and social normality.
the european parliament resolution on the political situation in venezuela was adopted by 501 votes to none, but was rejected by the majority of meps belonging to the parliamentary groups on the left and right of the political spectrum in the european parliament (94 votes against, 73 abstentions). in the debate which took place at the last plenary session in strasbourg, i had the opportunity to express my deep concern about the dramatic situation in which the country finds itself and i said that i considered venezuela to be living in a 'real powder keg, which a little more force will blow up'. i also recalled that a member of the portuguese community from venezuela said in lisbon at the end of april that the situation was unsustainable and our greatest fear at the moment was that we were heading for civil war. the situation is serious. that is why i believe that the time has come for the european union to take action to ensure the protection of the large expatriate community of european citizens living and working in venezuela, which includes nearly 200 000 registered portuguese. i also questioned the commission on 2 may and naturally voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the political, economic and social situation in venezuela is worrying and complex. this crisis has led to a deterioration in respect for human rights, the rule of law, democracy, the socioeconomic situation and deep social unrest. this resolution on the situation in venezuela expresses deep concern about a country where there are 2 000 political prisoners, including important opposition leaders, and where there is a humanitarian crisis due to a lack of basic foodstuffs and medicines. venezuela has a high rate of crime and impunity. in addition, the venezuelan government is delaying international assistance that could be readily provided by ngos. i voted in favour of this resolution because the situation in venezuela is deteriorating and is untenable and could lead to a crisis with even more serious consequences. the solution is through dialogue between the government, the opposition and society in general. the european union, in turn, must play a mediating role with the latin american countries in order to put pressure on the venezuelan authorities to seek a peaceful and democratic solution.
in the light of the recent events, the european union has decided to send a delegation to the united states to the united nations in order to discuss the situation in venezuela. we voted against a resolution which is completely contrary to the dialogue effort which these and other regional structures (alba, aec) are promoting and making use of and which federica moguerini has just signed and supported. a resolution which embarrasses and compromises the institutional relations between the european institutions and those regional structures in latin america, as well as with the republic of venezuela.
in the light of the recent events in the region, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the present resolution to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. the resolution calls for active cooperation by the european union and urges venezuelan politicians to develop an effort to respect each other and the institutions, focusing on incentives rather than possible sanctions which would only contribute to worsening the unsustainable situation in the country.
‒ the united nations environment programme (unep) and the world health organisation (who) have identified endocrine disruptors as a threat on a global scale. however, the commission has not respected its legal obligation to publish scientific criteria on endocrine disruptors, chemicals which are the cause of various diseases such as cancer or even increased infertility. in view of this, i agree that the commission should comply without delay with its obligations under the treaty and adopt immediately scientific risk-based criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties.
‒ endocrine disruptors can cause various types of diseases, such as neurobehavioural disorders, various types of cancer, can have negative consequences for pregnancy, genital malformations, obesity or type 2 diabetes. pursuant to regulation (eu) no 528/2012, the european commission should have adopted delegated acts by december 2013 concerning the scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products with a view to the prohibition of harmful substances. in march 2013, the expert advisory group on endocrine disruptors, set up by the commission and coordinated by the joint research centre (jrc), adopted a report on the main scientific issues relevant for the identification and characterisation of endocrine disrupting substances. the commission has not adopted the abovementioned delegated acts. the commission has been called upon to act at various times and in various ways since then. but even after the court's ruling in december 2015, he did nothing. we therefore consider this resolution to be appropriate. it is worth recalling the allegations of pressure by us officials responsible for trade in the context of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), which will justify the commission's attitude. so, all clear as day.
‒ the european commission was required to adopt, by 13 december 2013, delegated acts specifying the scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties in active substances and biocidal products. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to publish the criteria as soon as possible, in compliance with its obligations under article 266 of the treaty.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not been able to establish the exact amount of the aid, but it has been able to establish the amount of the aid, which is the amount of the aid. i therefore support the commission's urgent and priority fulfillment of its obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i regret that the commission has not respected its obligation to adopt delegated acts as required by regulation (eu) no 528/2012. the commission was required to specify the scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. the role of impact assessment, in line with the better regulation guidelines, is to gather evidence to assess the need for future union action. even after the conviction by the court of justice of the european union in december 2015, the commission has not adopted delegated acts on the scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties in active substances and biocidal products. this is a further breach of the treaties, since the commission has not taken all the necessary steps to comply with the court's judgment, and it is regrettable that the president of the european parliament announced the motion of censure tabled under rule 119 of the rules of procedure in the plenary and then declared it to be out of date.
in writing. ‒ on 28 march 2013, the expert advisory group on endocrine disruptors, set up by the commission and coordinated by the joint research centre (jrc), adopted a report on the main scientific issues relevant to the identification and characterisation of endocrine disrupting substances. the commission did not adopt the abovementioned delegated acts before or after 13 december 2013. it is unacceptable that, even following the judgment of the court of justice of december 2015, the commission has not adopted delegated acts on the scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products, justified by the need for an impact study that is being completed and that would calculate that the economic costs of such a list would be significant. it is unacceptable that any economic criterion should take precedence over the protection of public health and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on endocrine disruptors because i agree with the condemnation of the european commission for failing to comply with its obligation to adopt the delegated acts provided for in the regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. i think it is unacceptable that the institution which is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties should not fulfil its institutional obligations in this area, especially when public health consequences are involved. i therefore condemn the european commission's continued and incomprehensible delays in defining clear rules on chemical elements which can be the cause of a number of serious diseases. i therefore share the message of this resolution which calls on the commission to present rigorous criteria, based on scientific findings, in a timely manner, in the field of endocrine disruptors.
‒ since the entry into force of the respective regulation, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission in accordance with the applicable legislation, without the support of opinions from member states' committees. the referral back to the commission for a final decision, which should really be an exception in the whole procedure, has become the norm for decision-making on authorisations of genetically modified food and feed. i therefore consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the regulation.
in writing. ‒ syngenta france s.a.s. has submitted an application to the competent authority of germany for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize bt11xmir604xmir162xga21. this gm maize has resistance to some lepidopteran pests, glyphosate of ammonia and glyphosate. the application also covers products containing or consisting of maize for uses other than food or feed, other than cultivation, such as the production of biofuels. this application was extended to cover all subcombinations of single transformation events constituting this maize. the draft implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and should be withdrawn by the commission. since the entry into force of this regulation, the authorisation decisions have been adopted by the european commission, as the member states' committees have not delivered their opinions due to lack of consensus; the decision was always due to the exception in the legislation which referred the final decision to the commission in these cases. the exception became the rule. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed lays down, in accordance with article 5 thereof, the procedure for applying for the authorisation necessary for the placing on the market of a genetically modified organism intended for human consumption or a foodstuff. under that provision, the application for authorisation may be accompanied by an opinion of the committees of the respective member states; however, according to the european commission, the decisions it has taken since the entry into force of the regulation have been taken without the support of opinions, with the referral back to the commission now the norm rather than the exception. i therefore vote in favour of this because i consider that this commission implementing decision extends the powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, and therefore the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, considering that on 22 april 2015 the commission regretted, in the explanatory memorandum to its legislative proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, that since the entry into force of this regulation, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission in accordance with the applicable legislation without the support of opinions of committees of member states, and that referral to the commission for a final decision, which should truly constitute an exception in the whole procedure, has become the norm for decision-making on authorisations for genetically modified food and feed. the commission should therefore consider that the draft implementing decision falls outside the scope of the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2. the commission should then be asked to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ we consider that the draft implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and should be withdrawn by the commission. since the entry into force of this regulation, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission, as the member states' committees have not delivered their opinions due to lack of consensus; the decision was always due to the exception in the legislation referring the final decision to the commission in these cases, the exception becoming the rule for decision-making on authorisations for genetically modified food and feed. in addition to this procedural mess, there is a challenge to both the impartiality of the european food safety authority (efsa) and the whole herbicide authorisation process for glyphosate. this is because the maize concerned is resistant to both ammonium glyphosate and glyphosate, which may mean a higher concentration in the final product intended for feed.
‒ genetically modified dianthus caryophyllus l., when it is no longer ornamental, becomes waste which can be managed through composting. the genetically modified carnation contains a gene that encodes a mutant protein, which confers tolerance to sulfonylurea. sulphonylureas have replaced other herbicides that are more toxic to animals and their widespread use could have a devastating impact on the productivity of non-target crops and on the composition of natural plant communities and wild food chains. the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive. i voted for the motion.
in writing. suntory holdings limited, osaca, japan, submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands a notification concerning the placing on the market of a carnation genetically modified to have a specific colour and to be resistant to a type of substance used as a herbicide. once again, there was no consensus among the member states. the doubts and rejection of this decision are due to the fact that carnation, belonging to the species dianthus caryophyllus, is widely cultivated in europe, with the danger of cross-pollination by pollinating insects, or intentional, or even rooted by humans, and the fact that the gmo panel of efsa says to be aware of the eating habit of certain populations to intentionally consume carnation petals as a garnish. another aspect to be taken into account is their resistance to sulphonylureas, which could lead to the creation of a market for plants resistant to these substances, which could encourage their more widespread use. we are in favour of this objection to the authorization of gmos. we insist that the right of member states and the will of consumers must be respected if they oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the dangers to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec, exceeding the implementing powers provided for in that directive. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft decision.
‒ taking into account the importance of protecting human health and the environment, directive 2001/18/ec lays down general guidelines on the control of risks arising from the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, in particular as regards the placing of such organisms on the market. the proliferation of the use of genetically modified carnation could lead to an increase in the worldwide use of sulphonylureas, a substance associated with the treatment of type 2 diabetes, as herbicides, which could seriously affect not only public health, but also ecosystems and biodiversity and lead to contamination of water resources. therefore, i am voting in favour, as i consider that the draft implementing decision of the european commission does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec, exceeding the implementing powers provided for therein, and therefore the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in this directive. i therefore consider that i should ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision. the regulatory committee did not deliver an opinion, as seven member states (representing 7,84% of the population) voted against the commission's draft implementing decision, six member states (representing 46,26% of the population) abstained, eleven member states (representing 36,29% of the population) voted in favour and four member states were not represented. it should be taken into account that the use of medicinal products for purposes other than public health, resulting in their uncontrolled spread in ecosystems, may have negative effects on global biodiversity and cause chemical contamination of drinking water.
‒ i ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ we consider that the draft implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed and should be withdrawn by the commission. since the entry into force of this regulation, authorisation decisions have been adopted by the commission, as the member states' committees have not delivered their opinions due to lack of consensus; the decision was always due to the exception in the legislation referring the final decision to the commission in these cases, the exception becoming the rule for decision-making on authorisations for genetically modified food and feed. in addition to all this procedural imbroglio, there is the challenge that calls into question both the impartiality of the european food safety authority (efsa) and the herbicide authorisation process for glyphosate. this is because the maize concerned is resistant to both ammonium glyphosate and glyphosate, which may mean a higher concentration in the final feed product.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as they say in portugal, what is born wrong, is straightened out, and this dossier has been twisted from the start. the lack of transparency regarding the general court's statistics was evident throughout this procedure, leaving the question of whether the procedural delays alleged were real. as i have said here and in the committee on legal affairs, there has been a deliberate attempt by the court of justice to prevent parliament from being properly informed, thus preventing many members from voting in good faith. as i said in my report, the specialised courts are cheaper and their decisions are of better legal quality. but the opposite has been chosen, namely the more onerous, more inflexible solution, which can only be reversed by a new legislative initiative. the court of justice's proposal, which has been reverently supported by this parliament, is based on a big lie. as several judges of the general court have pointed out, the cases pending have practically ceased to exist, but it has been decided to double the number of its judges, who are technically underemployed and who have no cases to distribute to them, let alone to the new judges who are being appointed. the number of cases brought to date is far less than the number of cases decided and they concern mainly trade mark matters, which have decreased significantly, and competition matters, which have almost disappeared due to the commission's preventive action. the civil service tribunal, which was unanimously recognised for its excellent legal quality and balanced cost, was simply abolished and replaced by a solution of exorbitant expenditure, paid for by european taxpayers, some of whom were subject to heavy austerity measures. this stage, mr president, mr commissioner, is only one of the disastrous consequences of the previous mistake. this dossier teaches how to spend the most to get the least, that is, the worst results. unfortunately, it is a widely used method in the european union.
the attacks in paris and brussels demonstrate that we need more europe for our security and prove the interdependence between internal and external security. combating terrorism and other forms of organised crime is a priority that no member state can pursue alone: it requires sharing of capabilities, in particular in intelligence, justice and police, including border and customs. only then will we be able to achieve the objectives of the security agenda. today we have a european legislative framework for data protection that allows for a more secure sharing of data between police and judicial authorities, a framework that, by imposing respect for fundamental rights, including the principles of purpose and proportionality, allows for the removal of bottlenecks and loopholes in the architecture of data management control and the fight against fragmentation, including the sense of security and border control. a framework that creates and regulates the conditions to facilitate the interoperability between databases of security forces at internal level in each member state and at european level. it requires that in each state, and collectively, deficiencies in the functionalities of existing systems and thus in the scope and effectiveness of interoperability be eliminated. last month, parliament also adopted a new regulation on europol, which provides for the strengthening of democratic control of police cooperation by the european parliament in association with the national parliaments. we want to be more effective in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. what has been lacking is the political will on the part of the member states to have their agents and services engage in the use of existing european mechanisms. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels demonstrate how dearly we pay in lives for fragmentation, mistrust and disunity. to have a more europe in the safety and defence of citizens, including in the defence of fundamental freedoms, we need to get rid of the neoliberal policies that, by fostering unemployment, social exclusion and discrimination, feed the resentment of so many young europeans who join the ranks of daesh, many of them radicalising themselves online.
the attacks on democracy and the rule of law in turkey are one after the other, as are the terrorist attacks such as the one in istanbul yesterday, which we unequivocally condemn. the two are unfortunately linked. the collective waiver of the immunity of 138 mps is the open offensive against the hdp parliamentary group. the brutal repression of the kurdish minority and of all those who criticize president erdogan's personal project is now being met with this gross violation of the copenhagen criteria of democracy and the rule of law. however, despite what commissioner hahn said here today, which i welcome, the council and the commission continue to deny reality, to allow themselves to be blackmailed, to devalue the tragic democratic regression in turkey, to repeat absurdly that it is a 'safe country', that 'practically' all the criteria for visa liberalisation are met and to defend the dirty deal for outsourcing refugees. in this hallucinatory trajectory, we will soon be here debating how to respond to the crisis of the influx of turkish refugees!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner katainen, mr representative of the council, minister koenders, i come from a country which has hunted whales for centuries, but which has just managed to put an end to economic greed and to the slaughter of these sentient beings. the same cannot be said of japan, which, under the false pretext of scientific capture programmes and in clear violation of the moratorium on commercial whaling, which entered into force in 1986 and to which it is a signatory, has illegally resumed its whaling activity. and if i say illegal, mr commissioner and mr minister, it is because there is a binding decision of the international court of justice in 2014 which obliged japan to suspend its cetacean hunting programme, which that country is cunningly trying to steal, as my colleague giovanni la via, the author of the parliamentary questions, has already pointed out. the japanese argument that these catches are for scientific purposes is extremely shameless and even brazen, because we all know that the scientific community no longer needs to kill whales for research purposes, as the international court of justice itself has pointed out, which, in deciding to suspend japan's hunting programme, questioned the scientific purposes of the japanese programme and found it to be lacking in transparency. ladies and gentlemen, this unilateral and illegal decision by japan, which will involve the slaughter of more than 4000 species over a period of 12 years, is a clear violation of international law and an attack on the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. i'm not sure. the european union cannot, mr minister, stand by and watch this macabre game of pure economic expediency being played out by japan, but must do everything possible to prevent the killing of these creatures and the marketing of products from this illegal activity. my fellow citizens, we all inhabit a planet that is not our own, that has only been lent to us so that we can coexist peacefully with beings of other species. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us fight with conviction for this magnificent heritage.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 30 years of experience and scientific research at sea, my teams and i have carried out numerous studies on the biology, food ecology, ecotoxicology, migration and population dynamics of various species of atlantic cetaceans. we studied behavior, analyzed outputs, performed biopsies, conducted censuses, put transmitters and sensors on individuals that we monitored through hydrophones and satellites, and produced mathematical models of distribution. we never had to kill any individuals. in addition, we used information from animals we found washed up on the shore. technological developments today give us tools and methods that, while intrusive in some cases, do little to disturb the animals studying, do little to disturb the cetaceans. the study of stable isotopes, genetic analysis and genomics allows us to know about eating habits, migration dynamics and even kinship relations. there is a huge body of nonlethal methods today that are excellent approximations to reality and are fully accepted by the scientific community. for these reasons, i consider it disloyal to argue the need to use lethal methods for scientific purposes. through dna barcoding and other genetically based techniques applied to restoration products, we know that cetaceans from japan's so-called scientific whaling are being traded without proper regulation, leading to unfair and deceptive commercial practices. although its scientific research methodologies have been condemned by the international court of justice and also by the scientific community in general, japan, which i regard and respect as a great historical, cultural, scientific and technological nation, has not yet corrected the essential aspect of its antarctic scientific programme, namely the whaling. on this world oceans day, i want to state, as a scientist and now as a politician, the futility of whaling for scientific purposes.
madam president, mr vice-president, at a time when economies are becoming increasingly interdependent, economic diplomacy must necessarily be a fundamental vector of all external policies. and it must have two fundamental objectives in the european framework: on the one hand, to contribute to the internationalisation of our business fabric, and on the other hand, to attract foreign investment to the european area. in relation to the first objective, it is very important to support small and mediumsized enterprises. these are the ones who need the support of the european union most. they often have the support of their own countries, the member states in which they operate, but they need the support of the european union because they have some difficulty in conquering new markets outside the european area. and at a time when we are negotiating various trade agreements with different countries and groups of countries around the world, this challenge is of particular importance and therefore very specific instruments must be created, from the financial component to the logistical support component, in order to enable this business fabric, which is the bulk of the european business fabric, made up of small and mediumsized enterprises, to aspire to a faster internationalisation, otherwise they themselves will not be able to compete in the international arena. the second aspect is also very important and has to do with the ability to attract good foreign investment to the european political and economic area. there is much to be done in this area.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, suddenly everyone is talking about the need to re-industrialize europe. today we are talking about the railway equipment industry. but there is one thing that always seems to be forgotten by a section of the participants in this debate: the reason why we talk about reindustrialisation today is that there was deindustrialisation before. and we'll start from here! this deindustrialization had causes and had those responsible. it would be unwise to attempt such reindustrialisation with the same policies and guidelines that brought about deindustrialisation. in fact, it is the liberalisation and privatisation strategies that are at the root of the decline of the sector in several member states, which have led to the dismantling of many production units outside europe, which have promoted monopolistic concentration and which have led to the dismissal of thousands of workers. remember this when you lament the lack of skilled workers in the sector. because they already existed. now they want a european policy tailored to the major european groups in the sector, to colonize what is still left of the national markets, to which the successive railway packages and the european rules of public procurement contribute and making life easier for these european giants in international competition to colonize other markets around the world. that is not our approach and we have made that clear in the amendments we have tabled to this resolution. the defence of the european rail industry requires strong public leadership and investment. i end, madam president, with a regulatory framework which prevents a race to the bottom in terms of wages and workers' rights and encourages the exploitation of the potential of each country. (the speaker stops)
madam president, yesterday the house discussed the balance sheet for the first year of the european fund for strategic investments. a disappointing result, not only because of the insufficient mobilization of funds, but above all because of the inability to generate a push for the european union to take the lead in the industries of the future, in energy, digital and smart grids. the railway industry is an excellent example of a sector that can and should be supported to adopt a new innovation agenda in the framework of industry 4.0 now. the resolution we are discussing has a holistic and integrated approach to implementing and inspiring this strategy. i would like to congratulate your rapporteur, martina werner, on her excellent work in coordinating the work. this resolution sets a clear challenge to the european institutions - to increase political support for the sector, to include it in the negotiating priorities of international trade treaties, to encourage investment and the creation of a collaborative context, to use this case as an aggregator for the publication of a communication on the reindustrialisation of europe in the context of the digital revolution and the energy transition - and also poses a challenge to national governments, regional and local authorities, businesses, knowledge centres and citizens. we need a new innovation agenda as a key pillar for a new growth and jobs agenda for the european union. a mobilizing agenda for the future, which, commissioner, is needed now.
in writing. the privatisation processes of emef, empresa de manutenção de equipamento ferroviário, s.a. and cp carga, logística e transportes ferroviários de mercadorias, s.a. are an integral part of the process of liquidation of the national railway sector and are also part of the privatisation process that the government is launching at the final stage of its mandate. the real origin of this process goes back to the successive railway packages and the successive attempts to impose the liberalisation of the railway sector on the states and the peoples of the european union. these decisions are contrary to the portuguese constitution itself and are part of a process which is contrary to the constitution in a broader sense. it should be recalled that the constitution points to the 'coexistence of the public sector, the private sector and the cooperative and social sector of ownership of the means of production' and to the 'public ownership of natural resources and means of production, in accordance with the collective interest', as fundamental tasks in the economic field. it is once again confirmed that the european union is engaged in a process of de facto destruction of the public sector in order to promote the interests of large private interests.
mr president, as this resolution indicates, vietnam is one of our major trading partners in asia and it must be acknowledged that in some areas it has made progress towards a more open and tolerant society, the most recent example being the legalization of same sex marriage. unfortunately, we must also point out that despite the appeals and recommendations of various international bodies, there are still too many situations in which the one-party regime in vietnam continues to commit serious abuses of power and human rights violations which cannot and should not be ignored. the repression of the rights of demonstration and assembly, the persecution of human rights activists, the attack on religious freedom, in defiance of international law and the recommendations of the united nations envoys, must be strongly condemned, whether in vietnam or in any other part of the world where these same events take place.
mr president, last year we celebrated the 25th anniversary of eu-vietnam relations. in vietnam, a one-party system since 1975, the communist party rules over 90 million souls, allowing no challenge to its leadership and having control over the national assembly and the courts. in vietnam, civil liberties, freedom of speech and human rights are concepts that are not taken seriously and violations of the most fundamental human rights happen on a daily basis. mr thích quảng độ, a buddhist monk and 2016 nobel prize nominee and a prisoner of conscience adopted by amnesty international, has spent 30 years in jail for his peaceful opposition to the communist regime. he said, and i quote, ‘civilised society should never allow any government, whatsoever its ideology or political creed, to derogate from universal human rights and isolate its people behind an iron curtain on the pretext of non-interference into the nation’s internal affairs’. colleagues, until when will we allow the eu to be complacent with dictatorial regimes like the ones in venezuela or vietnam? they both start with a ‘v’ but it is not a ‘v for victory’, it is ‘v for villainy’.
in writing. ‒ the union is often accused of being a small-business, of having a far-reaching impact on the lives of europeans. this is an example of a complex instrument, small in scale, but with a very considerable impact on citizens. with mobility increasing in europe, which we also want to encourage, the importance of simplifying certain acts becomes clear. this is particularly clear in the case of the recognition of public documents, which required rather lengthy proceedings. this regulation removes formalities from this procedure for certain public documents, for example those relating to civil status or criminal records. in the epp we fought for other documents to be covered, such as academic diplomas, which the council ultimately did not allow. nevertheless, it was possible to introduce a clause for the revision of this instrument after this first phase of implementation. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report (second reading) aims at the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the eu. this legislation is based on article 21 tfeu and aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the eu. it is not a question of recognising the content of public documents, especially in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the regulation covers only documents relating to civil status and certain other documents often required of citizens, for example, residence, nationality and criminal records. it is proposed that multilingual forms be created for most of the public documents concerned in order to facilitate the process. the council is criticised for not including diplomas and training certificates, certificates of disability and certain documents relevant to businesses. moreover, multilingual forms cannot circulate independently but must be attached to the national documents concerned, which is an avoidable complication. the aim of this legislation is to facilitate the movement of citizens within the eu area, which is in many respects blocked by unnecessary administrative issues and which could be done more quickly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. in this connection, some important measures are introduced, including the waiver of two of the formalities normally required for crossborder public documents - legalisation and apostille - greater ease in accepting certified copies and certified translations and the creation of a multilingual form, which relieves citizens of the burden of translation and speeds up procedures. however, it is regrettable that documents such as certificates of incapacity/disability, training certificates and others do not fall within the scope of the regulation. i am therefore voting in favour of this because i consider that the adoption of these legislative measures is a decisive step towards the removal of the existing barriers to the free movement of citizens within the european union.
‒ this is the recommendation with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents in the european union. adopts the council's position at first reading. this legislation aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. the regulation covers only documents relating to civil status and certain other documents often required of citizens, for example, residence, nationality and criminal records. it does not deal with the recognition of the content of public documents, in particular to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the council is criticised for not including diplomas and training certificates, certificates of disability and certain documents relevant to businesses. moreover, multilingual forms cannot circulate independently but must be attached to the national documents concerned, which is an avoidable complication. the aim of this legislation is to facilitate the movement of citizens within the european union, which is in many respects blocked by unnecessary administrative issues and which could be done more quickly. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ currently, in the community area, some 12 million european citizens live, study or work in a member state other than the one of which they are nationals. however, citizens and businesses in the union face a number of administrative difficulties when submitting public documents required by the authorities of other member states, which is a prerequisite for exercising the right to free movement and taking advantage of the possibilities of the internal market. in this particular case, we believe that it is the legislator's duty to simplify and improve the formalities relating to administrative procedures, as laid down in regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 (which assesses the requirements for legalisation or apostille, or for certified translations and certified copies). the proposed amendment to the regulation aims to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents in the union: on the one hand, it introduces an innovative electronic mechanism which makes it possible to confirm the authenticity of a document between the issuer and the receiver; on the other hand, it makes it possible to create multilingual forms. in the interests of the citizens of the union and in view of the added value of uniformity and simplification of bureaucratic procedures, i voted in favour.
‒ this document, which i voted in favour of, concerns the legislative resolution of the european parliament of 9 june 2016 on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation requirements for certain public documents in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the mobility of european citizens is a reality: some 12 million people study, work or live in a member state other than their own. currently, if citizens and businesses in the union are to exercise their right to free movement or the freedoms of the internal market, they may face a number of administrative difficulties when presenting the necessary public documents to the authorities of another member state, in particular when crossing a border. following interinstitutional negotiations, the co-legislators and the commission agreed on a compromise text. the regulation covers documents relating to marital status, residence, nationality and criminal records. it also provides for measures to facilitate the acceptance of certified copies and certified translations and the creation of multilingual forms for most of the public documents concerned. parliament would also like to see diplomas, certificates of training and certificates of disability included.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a proposal for a parliament recommendation to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union, amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. the proposal excludes the recognition of the content of public documents, in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. given the current situation of constant mobility of european citizens and the consequent right to free movement and the freedoms of the internal market, there are multiple administrative difficulties when submitting public documents required by the authorities of another member state. the agreement reached, which is the result of a commitment made in several interinstitutional negotiations, will make it possible to amend regulation no 1024/2012, by dispensing with the legalisation and apostillation of several documents relating to marital status, as well as others relating to identification, residence, nationality and criminal record. there will also be less formality in accepting certified copies and certified translations. i have always been in favour of administrative simplification and bureaucratization, and as this report is aimed at making life easier for citizens, starting with the creation of multilingual forms for most public documents, i naturally voted in favour.
‒ this legislation is based on article 21 tfeu. this legislation aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it is not a question of recognising the content of public documents, especially in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the regulation covers only documents relating to civil status and certain other documents often required of citizens, for example, residence, nationality and criminal records. it is proposed that multilingual forms be created for most of the public documents concerned in order to facilitate the process. the council is criticised for not including diplomas and training certificates, certificates of disability and certain documents relevant to businesses. moreover, multilingual forms cannot circulate independently but must be attached to the national documents concerned, which is an avoidable complication.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice is undergoing a process of reform. among the various aspects of this reform is the reform of the general court of the european union. given the considerable workload of the court, which currently has 40 judges, parliament and the council agreed to increase that number to 56, i.e. two judges per member state. in return, it was also agreed to abolish the seven-judge european union civil service tribunal. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to transfer jurisdiction in disputes between the union and its servants. i therefore support the adoption of the report.
in writing. this is the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced a number of changes to the formations and procedure of the court of justice and the general court. the second part of the reform created provisions on the interim judges of the civil service tribunal. the third part was controversial as it concerned an increase in the number of judges of the general court. the initial increase envisaged was from 28 to 40 judges. at the end of the process, the co-legislators, at the instigation of the council, agreed to increase the number of judges at the general court to 56, so that each member state could appoint two judges. this increase was subject to the condition that the civil service tribunal was abolished and civil service litigation transferred back to the general court. we have opposed the abolition of the general civil service tribunal and we do not see the need to increase the number of judges, a situation which could be solved by a system of rotation. that is reason enough not to support this report as well.
‒ article 257 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union constitutes the legal basis for the creation of specialised courts. it was on the basis of this provision that the only specialised court created to date was set up in 2004: the specialised civil service court. however, it has been found that the number of cases brought before that body is relatively small and this proposal for a regulation seeks to remedy this inefficiency of resources by allocating the human resources, in particular the judges, of the specialised court to the general court. although the existence of a basis for this amendment has been questioned, the fact is that the legal basis is the result of an a contrario sensu interpretation of that treaty provision. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, since i believe that there must be efficient management of resources by the union institutions and that this must be guided by the adequacy of the actual needs.
in writing. ‒ this regulation, which i voted for, is the fourth on the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced a number of changes to the formations and procedure of the court of justice and the general court; the second established provisions on the temporary judges of the civil service tribunal; the third was the most controversial, as it concerned an increase in the number of judges of the general court (from 28 to 56). this regulation is a follow-up to the third regulation. with this report the amendment provisions are made clearer and the section on specialised courts is repealed in its entirety, as it will not be needed until a specialised court is created again. the report also states that not only the rules of procedure of the general court should be amended, but also its internal organisation, with a greater number of cases being assigned to larger formations, where justified by their importance, in order to ensure the consistency and quality of the case-law.
in writing. ‒ we are now looking at the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. after the controversial decision to increase the number of judges, which would have meant the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the transfer of its jurisdiction to the general court, this regulation proposes the repeal of the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, together with a slight amendment to the transitional provisions and, of course, the repeal of the second regulation. it also contains some amendments of a very technical nature which will better target the legislation, making it clearer and without altering its substance. i agree with the amendments proposed and i agree with the rapporteur's overall views, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ this is the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced a number of changes to the formations and procedure of the court of justice and the general court, and the second regulation made provision for temporary judges of the civil service tribunal. the third part of the reform concerned an increase in the number of judges of the general court. the initial increase envisaged was from 28 to 40 judges. at the end of the process, the co-legislators, at the instigation of the council, agreed to increase the number of judges at the general court to 56, so that each member state could appoint two judges. this increase was subject to the condition that the civil service tribunal was abolished and civil service litigation transferred back to the general court. we are opposed to the abolition of the general civil service tribunal and do not see the need to increase the number of judges, a situation which could be solved by a system of rotation.
‒ following up a previous european parliament resolution, it called for the adoption of a regulation on a european administrative procedure law to guarantee the right to good administration through an open, efficient and independent european administration. the regulation adopted today responds to this wish. in a union governed by the rule of law, procedural rights and obligations must always be defined and safeguarded, and citizens should be able to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, rapid implementation and responsiveness from the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, as well as adequate information on the possibility of bringing proceedings in this area. i support this resolution because i believe that a regulation on the administrative procedure for acts of the union is vital, clearly laying down the rights and obligations of all administrative procedures in the union, based on the principles of good administration and the rule of law and other values which are at the heart of the union.
‒ this resolution calls on the european commission to take action in the field of eu administration. in january 2013, the european parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent eu administration, in accordance with article 298 tfeu. the european commission has taken no action in this respect. the resolution calls on the commission to present a legislative proposal to be included in its work programme for 2017. the resolution opens up a not entirely explicit possibility of codifying administrative law in the eu area, in short, the publication of an eu administrative code. the statement of reasons shall state: the fact that the union does not have a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law makes it difficult for citizens to understand their administrative rights under union law. we do not forget that it is important for administrative regulation to go beyond the application of fundamental rules and principles, always with a view to respecting the principles of transparency, subsidiarity and proportionality. however, it should be ensured that the applicability of such an internal instrument of the european union does not extend to the member states. only in this way will the sovereignty of these states and the national framework of their values be respected.
‒ citizens should be able to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, rapid implementation and responsiveness from the european institutions. existing rules and principles on good administration are scattered across a variety of sources of law and therefore need to be clarified for reasons of legal certainty and security. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union.
‒ in accordance with article 298 tfeu, the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union shall, in the performance of their tasks, support an open, efficient and independent european administration, and the european union shall adopt the necessary provisions to that end. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union enshrines the right of citizens to good administration. the european union has adopted a number of administrative procedures over the years in a wide variety of sectors without, however, taking account of the overall coherence of the system. in this context, consistency of the union's administrative activities and full respect for the right to good administration and the interpretative conformity of procedural rules should be ensured. the right to good administration implies compliance with the duty of diligence, the principle of proportionality, the duty to act impartially, the duty to state reasons for acts, among others. i am therefore in favour of the adoption of a regulation on this subject, since i consider it essential that the union's administrative activities be governed by an appropriate and coherent structure of administrative procedures, so as to ensure an efficient, open and independent administration.
‒ the purpose of this report is to request the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on a european law on administrative procedure. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. this initiative is part of a process of increasingly implementing the federalisation of administrative law, which is continuing, and is also part of a process of strengthening european capitalist integration which aims to harmonise national administrative laws. the report opens the door to the creation of a 'communitarianised' administrative law which would be another step towards the construction of a european federation. we do not overlook the importance of administrative regulation by applying fundamental rules and principles, always with a view to respecting the principles of transparency, subsidiarity and proportionality. however, it must be ensured that the applicability of such an internal instrument of the european union does not extend to the member states, in the context of respect for their sovereignty and the appreciation of their national values, highlighting here the values of state and para-state administration in its broadest sense. we abstained.
‒ in a union governed by the rule of law, it is necessary to ensure that procedural rights and obligations are always properly defined, developed and respected. the rules and principles of good administration currently in place are dispersed over a wide variety of sources such as primary law, secondary law, the case law of the court of justice of the european union, non-binding legal measures and unilateral commitments by the union institutions. this regulation, which i voted for, is intended to guarantee the right to good administration, backed up by an open european administration that can improve the gaps and inconsistencies that the union has developed over the years through sectoral administrative procedures in the form of binding provisions and non-binding measures, without necessarily taking account of the overall coherence of the system. we must provide citizens with a high level of transparency, efficiency, rapid implementation and responsiveness by the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, as well as adequate information on the possibility of initiating proceedings in this area.
in writing. ‒ on 15 january 2013, parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union under article 298 tfeu, but despite the fact that the resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions), the request made by the european parliament was not followed up by any proposal from the commission. the ep now calls on the commission to consider this proposal for a regulation and to submit a legislative proposal to be included in its work programme for 2017.
in writing. ‒ on 15 january 2013, parliament called, in a resolution adopted by an overwhelming majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions), for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european union administration in accordance with article 298 tfeu. the commission has not taken any action in this respect. the resolution calls on the commission to present a legislative proposal, which should be included in its work programme for 2017. we have doubts about what are the administrative rights of citizens or the rights of member states of citizens. what are citizens of the union? are we talking about more integration in the administrative field as well? these questions open the door to different interpretations. that is why we abstained.
‒ the resolution addresses the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry. it falls under the fourth railway package - which praises and defends. it advocates the privatisation of the sector, i.e. the strengthening of monopoly control by the large multinationals, to the detriment of investment and the public interest. the need for reindustrialization, which is now being talked about, stems from years of pursuing an agenda of dismantling industry that was in the public sphere, its privatization, with the obsessive goal of reducing jobs and workers' rights. the document says nothing about that. we have proposed concrete measures to enhance the railway industry and to envisage its revitalization, with increased public involvement, effectively guaranteeing workers' rights, valuing knowledge and creative work, new methods and technologies in the production chain and involving the definition of strategies according to the specificities, needs and plans of each country. we have made it clear in our amendments that there is an alternative to the resolution. the amendments were rejected by those who approved the resolution. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european railway equipment industry is of strategic importance in contributing to the strengthening of european industry. the railway equipment industry is a key sector for europe's competitiveness and innovation capacity. it is therefore important to improve support for the sector. the commission should, as soon as possible, issue a communication on strengthening and supporting the railway equipment industry in a strategy for reindustrialising europe.
‒ the railway equipment industry is a major european industry sector with enormous potential for economic growth, job creation and investment in research and innovation. the sector currently employs some 400 000 people and invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in r & d. however, the sector faces some difficulties which the outline of a strategy at eu level can help to overcome. i am therefore in favour of this, since i consider it crucial for this subsector of activity that strategic lines be drawn up at union level to preserve its leading position on the world stage, that the emphasis be placed more heavily on innovation, on the qualification of the workforce and on improving market conditions and the competitiveness of enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises.
‒ the european railway equipment industry employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in r&d, represents 46% of the global market for the industry and makes a key contribution to mitigating climate change and addressing demographic change. for these reasons, and because it is a contribution towards achieving the 20% reindustrialisation target, the report, which i voted for, asks the commission to support the objective of a modal shift towards rail transport - both for passengers and goods - through concrete policy measures and targeted investment. many eu companies find it difficult to operate across borders, due to the administrative and technical fragmentation of the market. we therefore consider it essential to create a single european railway area, technologically innovative, in order to maintain its dominant position worldwide. in addition, we consider that the commission should, by december 2016, present a strategy for the aggregation of the companies. finally, we call for a training strategy to ensure a viable railway equipment industry in the long term, support for smes, improvement of the market environment for suppliers, stimulation of investment and enhancement of competitiveness.
‒ the european railway equipment industry (eer) employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in r&d and accounts for 46% of the eer world market. the rail sector as a whole, including operators and infrastructure, accounts for over 1 million direct jobs and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. the importance of the ief for growth, employment and innovation in the european industrial sector and its contribution to achieving the 20% industrialisation target is clear. we also recall the key contribution of the rail sector to mitigating climate change and to addressing other major trends such as urbanisation and demographic change. in line with the outcome of cop 21 and the eu's 2030 climate and energy targets, it is important that the commission and the council support the transition to rail and other energy-efficient and sustainable electrified transport in order to achieve the objective of decarbonising the transport sector. concrete measures are needed to maintain the leadership of the european railway equipment industry and boost investment in railway projects
‒ the privatisation processes of emef, empresa de manutenção de equipamento ferroviário, s.a. and cp carga, logística e transportes ferroviários de mercadorias, s.a. are an integral part of the process of liquidation of the national railway sector and are also part of the privatisation process that the government is launching at the final stage of its mandate. the real origin of this process goes back to the successive railway packages and the successive attempts to impose the liberalisation of the railway sector on the states and the peoples of the european union. these decisions are contrary to the portuguese constitution itself and are part of a process which is contrary to the constitution in a broader sense. it should be recalled that the constitution points to the 'coexistence of the public sector, the private sector and the cooperative and social sector of ownership of the means of production' and to the 'public ownership of natural resources and means of production, in accordance with the collective interest', as fundamental tasks in the economic field. it is once again confirmed that the european union is engaged in a process of de facto destruction of the public sector in order to promote the interests of large private interests.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry because i agree with the holistic and integrated vision it reflects and with the request to the commission to present a communication on the strategy for the reindustrialisation of europe. the railway industry is an excellent example of a sector that can and should be supported to adopt a new innovation agenda in the framework of industry 4.0 now. an agenda combining the development of new products, services, organisational models and skills, involving universities, research centres, reference companies and networks of smes, start-ups and spin-offs. support increased political support for the sector, including through its inclusion in the negotiation priorities of international trade treaties, encouraging investment and creating a collaborative environment.
mr president, commissioner, international agreements have become a central topic of debate in european societies in recent years. many european citizens have in fact begun to follow and take an interest in the negotiations on these agreements, seeking information and to know the arguments put forward, the advantages and disadvantages that may be involved. this is particularly true of free trade agreements negotiated with third countries. these treaties have polarized the debate among citizens and have fuelled passionate disputes, many of them very much ideologically motivated, which is natural and should even be appreciated positively. this makes the issue of access to information on the negotiating process at its various stages particularly sensitive. it is not by chance that one of the most controversial aspects of international agreements, as we have seen today in this debate, is transparency, which is very much in evidence, for example, in the case of the discussion on the transatlantic treaty, which we are currently negotiating with the united states. in this context, the role of the european parliament in monitoring and scrutinizing such agreements is of great importance. the treaty of lisbon not only strengthened these monitoring and control powers, but also established that, in order to be able to perform this function properly, parliament must be duly informed of the progress of the negotiations on such agreements. moreover, the treaty of lisbon stipulates that the european parliament's right to information on negotiations is not limited to requests for information submitted by parliament itself, but must also result from the initiative of other european institutions. that is why the question of the institutional mechanisms for the transmission of this information is of the utmost importance. and although it was formalised by libe, it also concerns the afet committee, which focuses on international agreements in the more general dimension of european foreign policy, and the human rights committee, which focuses on these agreements in the context of the safeguarding and promotion of human rights. as chairman of the delegation for relations with mercosur, i have been following and keeping in mind the need for a certain degree of confidentiality in the negotiation of trade agreements. however, political action and even some diplomatic action that the european parliament can take is not compatible with sporadic and excessively distant information. it would therefore be very useful for the work of delegations, for example, for relations with third countries, in this case with the mercosur countries, if the negotiators responsible would systematically and in a timely manner provide their members with updated information on the progress of the negotiations on the eu-mercosur agreement, to give this concrete example. that is not the case today. contrary to the provisions of the treaty of lisbon and the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, access to information remains dependent on an initiative by the delegation. i think that the key thing here is to ensure that there is, within the limits of common sense, of course, a regular flow of information between the commission and parliament on this type of agreement, whether this is done by setting up a permanent mechanism or on the basis of institutional loyalty and respect for the provisions of the existing treaties and interinstitutional agreements. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (article 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much, it is clear that some duty of confidentiality must be respected, it is not possible to negotiate any international treaty, especially in the commercial component, in the public square. there's no memory of that ever happening. that would make it impossible to pass any treaty. but the truth is that we are living in a different time, with greater demands for transparency, and i think, i am referring strictly to the european parliament, that it is important that there are mechanisms which allow for a more constant and more timely transmission of information on the way in which the negotiation of the treaties is developing. as i said, i have been following the negotiations on a specific treaty, the treaty between the european union and mercosur, and i see the need to improve these mechanisms for the transmission of information.
madam president, in recent decades the democratic republic of congo has been marked by a history of violence which has claimed the lives of millions of people. the scenario is very worrying. a few days ago, a group of un experts warned of the possibility of a process similar to the one that followed the elections in burundi, with pro- and former government guerrillas clashing, should the presidential elections be postponed to 2017, as, unfortunately, seems likely to happen. now we are hearing reports of massacres of army soldiers and former rebel fighters in demilitarisation centres in the south-east of the country. in view of this, the european union must do everything in its power to prevent the situation from going off the rails. the 1994 massacre in rwanda, in the face of the rest of the world's inaction, and the two devastating wars in the congo, must always be present in our memory. the european union has in recent years provided valuable assistance to the congo, both in combating poverty and in stabilising the country and the region. the european union can and should use its support at this time to pressure the congolese authorities to respect the reintegration process of former rebels and opposition rights, to respect the electoral calendar and to engage in the african union-sponsored dialogue.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, in fact, in november parliament adopted a report on this subject with concrete measures, together with cooperation, coordination and information sharing between security and information forces, which pointed to the importance of measures to prevent radicalisation in prisons and in our ghettos, the moolenbeeks that go around this europe. but instead we have ended up with the european pnr which was presented as a magic bullet against terrorism, which is hollowed out against charter and private flights, thus illustrating the inconsistency of so-called security policies which in reality do not provide any security, and i will not even talk about what is happening in the financing of terrorism. we are also continuing to pay the price for the lack of europe in the dis-coordination, in the inaction, in the contradictions in our foreign policy and in the contradictions related to our internal security in the face of conflicts: syria, iraq, libya, turkey, ukraine and others in our neighbourhood. our security depends on an ideological and political struggle inside and outside our borders, but we will not be able to stop it if we continue to leave room for the fascist and nazi far right to fan the winds of xenophobia and hatred against refugees and migrants, and if we continue to deny talking about foreign fighters when they are, in fact, young europeans, our own, born, raised and pushed into petty crime and radicalized in our prisons, who have attacked us, as they attack other people in the ranks of daesh, because they feed resentment against the societies in which they grew up, feeling excluded and discriminated. our governments, the council and the commission must recognize that neoliberal policies have failed miserably and have fostered insecurity and populism in europe by creating unemployment, ghettos, exclusion, more inequality and social injustice, creating the conditions for islamic states and fascist nazi hooligan groups to recruit our young people and turn them into killer wolves. it was these same policies that cut into the capabilities and training of our defense and security forces, that cut into the rehabilitation capabilities of our prisons, that let them become centers of radicalization, and that never, in fact, invested in radicalization prevention programs. the commission is now coming to this. that's good! we need resources, but also intelligent social policies, involving municipal structures, schools, clubs, non-governmental organisations, the private sector, and actively involving families and religious communities, especially european muslims who are suffering from the devastating effect of terrorist attacks and behaviour. we must prevent short-term reactions such as those suggesting the withdrawal of nationality from suspected terrorists or the criminalisation of internet use. you need to... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i welcome the commission's paper on the prevention of radicalisation, which was presented last week in response to parliament's calls. this communication makes it clear that radicalisation is not the result of a single factor. it is a complex phenomenon to which the information society has added even more elements. we must therefore tackle this phenomenon as a whole. that is, looking at prevention, sanctioning and reintegration. but also by developing a set of transversal measures in various fields, the more effective the closer they are to the citizens, whether by regions, chambers, schools or community centres. prisons are a central element in this picture. we do not want prisons to become either the universities of crime or the new centers of radicalisation. we know that this is a matter of national competence, but the union must support measures aimed at prevention in the prison system and invest in more successful reintegration. and the union must also support long-term policies, particularly in the field of education. as is clear, the radicalisation leading to violent fundamentalism must also be sanctioned, by holding the guilty to account and deterring potential instigators. the proposal to amend sis ii, the schengen information system, to be presented later this year should introduce a set of improvements which will enable sis to contribute to more concerted and effective action by the member states, both at the preventive and the sanctioning level. finally, let us not neglect the question of reintegration. from children exposed to radicalized environments to convicted adults, we need to seek their reintegration, bringing them back into society, bringing them closer to their core values. parliament and the commission can and must therefore work together. i submitted proposals for a pilot project in the context of the de-radicalisation of children and young people in the 2016 budget. i hope you succeed. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. speaking in personal terms and speaking in terms of the epp, we never confuse immigration with terrorism. on the contrary, we have always said that our response to immigration required two things: first, to try to solve the problems at the root; second, to have a humanitarian response. to confuse the two is a speech that cannot but merit our disapproval.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who have represented parliament in this procedure. mr walesa, mrs rodust and, of course, the other shadow rapporteurs have been arguing for many months that parliament's position should be reflected as much as possible in the final version of this regulation. as the author of some of the more 'controversial' amendments, i accept that the solution found could contribute to 'maintaining the stocks of harvested species at biomass levels that can generate the maximum sustainable yield'. the approach adopted can now inspire plans in the remaining geographical areas. but rather than closing the process with this wording, i think we should constantly check whether it is in line with the objectives of the new common fisheries policy. despite this positive step, i must stress that, apart from the real mess that is going on in the mediterranean, many of the other european fisheries are not healthy. the robustness of exploited populations must be ensured and the resilience of their habitats and food chains must also be promoted. to do this, it is urgent to implement real marine protected areas. the introduction of quotas for exploited marine resources is a necessary but inconsequential instrument in the absence of a policy to prevent and mitigate negative effects on ecosystems.
mr president, i welcome this plan, since the last one was adopted in early 2008, and i congratulate all those who worked on its design, in particular the rapporteur and the deputy rapporteurs. i think, however, that the european commission should have been more ambitious in its proposal, because the continued decline of these species - cod, herring and sprat - in the baltic sea is at stake. the common fisheries policy must contribute to the conservation of all species exploited, but also to the protection of the marine environment, since only in this way will the first major objective of this policy, which is maximum sustainable yield, be achieved. for a country like portugal, where large sections of the population live off the sea, in particular the fishing community, all measures that contribute to the protection of the quality of life in the oceans are always welcome!
madam president, this proposal is indeed an asset for some 13% of couples in the european union, according to 2007 data. after nine years, i'm guessing and imagining that there'll be a lot more of those couples. if we add divorce to marriages, we will have even more situations which would have led to the existence of a set of rules which were clear in relation to property rights for couples in the european union, with family law being safeguarded, as has already been said, and marriage regimes not being affected in their substance. in this respect, the recognition of these rights is an important instrument. this is civil justice, the property of couples, including couples in a de facto union, which will ensure the free movement of judicial decisions and the recognition of these decisions in the countries of the union. i regret, however, that common sense and, above all, justice did not prevail in the council to the extent of obtaining a decision which was unanimous, which was desirable and which made it necessary to have recourse to enhanced cooperation. only 17 of us trusted each other.
madam president, this report, while fundamental, nevertheless contains inaccuracies in the language of research and education and seems to me to be unambitious in relation to education in the 21st century. notice that it touches on gender issues only once. in a europe united in diversity, it is pointless to defend the processes of acculturation. it makes sense to advocate for social and cultural inclusion. the emphasis on teaching rather than learning is symptomatic of this. the subliminal relationship between pedagogical innovation and information and communication technologies also solidifies my perspective. the use of computer tools is not the only way to innovate in education. information and communication technologies are mere teaching materials, as the typewriter was in the past. from a european point of view, it seems to me that there is at times a clear disconnect between what we propose and the results. in fact, it is quite positive that we want 40% of young europeans to have a higher education qualification. but let us be honest, there are huge difficulties in many member states for the new generation of graduates. in my country, portugal, this generation is known as the 500-euro generation. i have no doubt about the importance of the social sciences and humanities, but how far is entrepreneurial europe prepared to respond to speculative and critical thinking? it is no accident that in some countries there has been a brain drain. in the case of portugal, this phenomenon was striking as a result of four years of very harsh austerity. to speak of unbalanced mobility is, to me, a euphemism for forced immigration. the demotivation in the field of education has become widespread: we have teachers and educators who have been stripped of their dignity by unfair evaluations and absurd salary cuts that have had the blessing of the european union. if education is a public and common good, then it should not be suggested, as this report suggests, that the banks should be the ones to secure the future of our young people.
mr president, commissioner, the commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency are the two pillars of the energy union and, at a time when the european union seems to be hesitating between leading the new cycle of globalisation or fragmenting and becoming globally irrelevant, the debate we are having here today has a very high practical and symbolic significance. it is a debate about our ability to exploit endogenous resources in the strategic field of energy, a situation which is possible, as the example of portugal well illustrates. it is essential that we have ambitious targets, in line with the paris agreement, to produce more clean and renewable energy, because that means creating wealth, jobs, reducing dependence on external energy suppliers. but it is also crucial to set ambitious targets for energy efficiency, because this improves the competitiveness of businesses, it tackles energy poverty in households, it reduces emissions and it creates opportunities for new investment. we need to produce more renewable energy, used efficiently in the framework of an interconnected and transparent european market. it is priorities like these that make the difference and give meaning to our aspiration to a common political and economic space. a space we have to consolidate... (the president cut the speaker off)
increasing energy efficiency is a burning issue, particularly for countries like portugal, with a huge energy deficit and significant dependence on the outside world. but this question cannot be tackled in a meaningful way, in all its breadth and complexity, within the narrow and restrictive framework of the so-called energy union and the liberalising and deregulating vision that guides it. a recent positive development in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is more a result of the economic crisis than of the necessary but still to be achieved energy paradigm shift. we disagree with the market approach and denounce its perversities. the framework of liberalisation and privatisation of the energy sector has brought high energy prices for average industrial consumers and households to sustain the profits of private monopolies and oligopolies in the sector, compromising the investments needed to increase energy efficiency. we therefore stress the need for public and democratic control of the energy sector, which means public ownership and management, as an essential means of achieving desired and proclaimed economic, social and environmental objectives.
‒ the european parliament has decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration by the commission or member states in the application of european rules relating to money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance. i was elected to this commission of inquiry. the panama papers represent a unique opportunity to act at the level of the european union. i am sure that in this committee of inquiry into the panama papers we shall have a great deal of agreement from all the political groups.
in writing. the establishment of a commission of inquiry to investigate the scandals revealed by the panama papers was voted in favour. however, we cannot fail to point out that the recent past, with its succession of tax scandals, leads us to conclude that we are facing a structural problem and not just a cyclical one. this committee, regardless of whether it is investigating the facts about the perpetrators of these practices, whether they are consultancy firms, multinationals or national governments, should provoke a broad reflection on the deeper causes that created the conditions for these practices, which are common and widespread in most large multinationals, with the connivance of several eu member states. and these root causes are naturally associated with the deregulation of the financial system and the lifting of all restrictions on the movement of capital. it is to be hoped that these matters will not be the subject of the work of this committee. we regret that the mandate of the committee does not reflect this need. having made it possible to set up this committee, we denounce what we consider to be its limits and, in a certain sense, some of the perversity that may be associated with it: giving the impression that something is being done to change something, while in reality everything remains the same. that is what happened to the luxleaks commission.
‒ this committee of inquiry could be of great importance in the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. it is with a great sense of mission that i will participate as an effective member of this committee, where i will do everything to contribute to the success of this committee.
‒ the commission of inquiry into the so-called 'panama papers' for the investigation of alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion has a key role to play in ensuring citizens' trust in the institutions. the european union must ensure that the rules in force are strictly observed and must take all the necessary steps to ensure a policy of transparency and to combat tax evasion and avoidance.
‒ as i have supported the european parliament's decision to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance, the composition of the committee and the duration of its term of office, i have also agreed to the appointment of the 65 members who will carry out this task and to submit a full report on this matter within 12 months. i would also like to point out that three of these meps are elected by portugal, two of whom are members of my political group and have a recognised capacity and proven experience in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of the appointments of the european parliament's committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law relating to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance, as i agree with the proposed list of names. i would stress that the european parliament is the democratic body par excellence of the european institutions and therefore has a duty to investigate what has happened and to find out why the current tax avoidance and evasion measures have not been effective. i would stress that, in fulfilling this mandate, parliament must also propose in its final report measures to avoid a repetition of the panama papers. in addition to strengthening domestic regulation in this area, it is also essential to encourage third countries to apply minimum standards of good governance in tax matters and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is expected to give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement. lebanon is of strategic importance to the eu in the middle east context with regard to security and defence. the report says the eu wants to protect itself from new threats such as terrorism. it also needs another country to act as a buffer to the arrival of more refugees in europe. the agreement consists of a proposal for an association between the european commission and the republic of lebanon to provide technical and financial support to the country, enabling it to participate in certain european programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme, creative europe. the eu is not concerned about the collapse of lebanon. the country has taken in thousands of refugees, there are problems with the syrian border, with israel, with the presence of the self-proclaimed islamic state. the main objective of the euro-mediterranean partnership is economic integration and the privileged relationship of these countries with the eu, and it is inseparable from the objectives of economic domination and market colonization. the agreement opens the door to free trade agreements. it is part of the eu's political and economic agenda for the middle east. these are reasons for our opposition.
‒ the objective of this protocol is to establish the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol defines the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union in accordance with european union programmes. this framework shall apply only to programmes whose constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation by the republic of lebanon. therefore, the conclusion of the protocol does not imply the exercise of powers under the various sectoral policies provided for in the programmes, which are exercised when the programmes are established. that's why i'm in favour.
‒ this draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes deserves my vote in favour.
‒ under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of european union (eu) programmes and agencies to partner countries is one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in these countries. on 18 june 2007, the commission launched negotiations for the signature of framework agreements with the enp partner countries. to date, protocols have been signed with armenia, georgia, israel, jordan, moldova, morocco and ukraine. in december 2013, lebanon expressed its interest in participating in the wide range of programmes open to these partner countries. the protocol includes a framework agreement on the general principles governing the participation of the republic of lebanon in eu programmes and contains standard provisions similar to those applied to all other partner countries concerned. the horizontal framework established by the protocol, whose main objective is to establish financial and technical rules allowing lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes, lays down principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation, allowing lebanon to receive eu assistance, in particular in the financial field, in accordance with the established programmes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this protocol establishes an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report - which is not purely technical - concerns the inclusion of the 2004 enlargement countries in the protocol to the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement. lebanon is of strategic importance to the eu in the middle east context with regard to security and defence. the report says the eu wants to protect itself from new threats such as terrorism. it also needs another country to act as a buffer to the arrival of more refugees in europe. the eu is not concerned about the collapse of lebanon. the country has taken in thousands of refugees, there are problems with the syrian border, with israel, with the presence of the self-proclaimed islamic state. the main objective of the euro-mediterranean partnership is economic integration and the privileged relationship of these countries with the eu, and it is inseparable from the objectives of economic domination and market colonization. the agreement opens the door to free trade agreements. it is part of the eu's political and economic agenda for the middle east. these are reasons for our opposition.
‒ the objective of this protocol is to establish the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol defines the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union in accordance with european union programmes. this framework shall apply only to programmes whose constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation by the republic of lebanon. therefore, the conclusion of the protocol does not imply the exercise of powers under the various sectoral policies provided for in the programmes, which are exercised when the programmes are established. it takes account of the 2004 enlargement of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union.
‒ this draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union deserves my vote in favour.
‒ following the accession to the european union in 2004 of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia, the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and lebanon, of the other part (signed in june 2002 in luxembourg) had to be updated. this text is only intended to formalise this enlargement process by including the 10 new member states which joined the european union in 2004 in the text of the agreement, which is why i voted in favour of this draft council decision.
‒ this protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishes an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report - which is not purely technical - concerns the inclusion of bulgaria and romania in the protocol to the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement (enlargement of 2007). lebanon is of strategic importance to the eu in the middle east context with regard to security and defence. the report says the eu wants to protect itself from new threats such as terrorism. it also needs another country to act as a buffer to the arrival of more refugees in europe. the eu is not concerned about the collapse of lebanon. the country has taken in thousands of refugees, there are problems with the syrian border, with israel, with the presence of the self-proclaimed islamic state. the main objective of the euro-mediterranean partnership is economic integration and the privileged relationship of these countries with the eu, and it is inseparable from the objectives of economic domination and market colonization. the agreement opens the door to free trade agreements. it is part of the eu's political and economic agenda for the middle east. these are reasons for our opposition.
‒ the objective of this protocol is to establish the financial and technical rules enabling the republic of lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol defines the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union in accordance with european union programmes. this framework shall apply only to programmes whose constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation by the republic of lebanon. therefore, the conclusion of the protocol does not imply the exercise of powers under the various sectoral policies provided for in the programmes, which are exercised when the programmes are established. it takes account of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union.
in writing. - this draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union deserves my vote in favour.
in the light of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union in 2007, this draft council decision concerns the updating of the euro-mediterranean agreement with lebanon (signed in 2002), given the accession of these member states to the european union. this agreement establishes an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part. like the recommendation made in this regard for the accession in 2004 of 10 other member states, and having no reason to object to the council's decision, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information aimed at improving tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations, which represents an important step forward in the context of ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the new agreement will enable the tax administrations of the member states and monaco to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, to assess the likelihood of tax evasion occurring and to avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. the agreement signed this year on the automatic exchange of financial account information, which aims to improve international tax cooperation, is a step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the new agreement will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by residents of each country, starting in 2018, for information collected from january 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal income or capital assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that monaco applies measures equivalent to the eu legal framework as updated in december 2014 (with the amendment to the administrative cooperation directive, 'dac2') and is in compliance with the procedures for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts promoted by the oecd at global level. as a result of the new agreement, it is envisaged that the tax administrations of the member states and monaco will be able to:- correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned;- administer and apply their tax laws in cross-border situations;- assess the likelihood of tax evasion;- avoid unnecessary further investigations. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco, which provides for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec.
‒ in order to improve tax cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations, the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the agreement shows significant progress in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and updates the 2004 agreement, which ensured that monaco would apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. under the new agreement, as of 2018, eu member states and monaco will automatically exchange information collected from 1 january 2017 onwards about financial accounts held in their territories by residents of the other party. the purpose of this exchange is to prevent situations where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ the european union and the principality of monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which represents an important milestone in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement also updated the previous 2004 agreement, which ensured that monaco adopted measures equivalent to those set out in the eu savings income tax directive. under this agreement, eu member states and monaco will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by residents of the other. the primary purpose of this agreement is to detect situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal income or capital assets on which taxes have not been paid. the tax administrations of the member states and monaco will thus be able to identify situations with acumen, administer and apply their tax laws in cross-border situations and assess the likelihood of tax evasion. i agree with the rapporteur's position that this agreement is a viable and important measure to ensure the smooth, transparent and more efficient functioning of our tax administrations, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the schwab report for agreeing to the eu-monaco agreement, which represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to fight tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that monaco adopts measures equivalent to those of the eu on the taxation of income from applied savings. the new agreement will allow eu member states and monaco to automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by residents of the other territories, starting in 2018, for information collected as of 1 january 2017. the agreement aims to ensure that monaco applies enhanced measures equivalent to those in the legal framework of the european union and in compliance with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information in accordance with the standards laid down by the oecd.
‒ i support the negrescu report which will allow the use of eur 1 824 041 from the globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market 488 workers made redundant by hainaut machinery and 300 targeted young people who are not working, studying or in training. the redundancies were triggered by the decline in public and private investment in eu infrastructure and the considerable rise in steel prices in europe, which caused severe disruption to trade and the loss of competitiveness of european construction machinery factories. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million. belgium applied following redundancies in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector and decided to provide also personalised services co-financed by the egf to 300 young people who are not in employment, education or training. i therefore agree that a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 should be mobilised to meet the request made by belgium.
‒ applications submitted under the intervention criteria due to the high number of workers made redundant are accepted. this is another such case, although the application does not meet the eligibility criteria set out in the fund regulation and is therefore an application under exceptional circumstances, which could have a serious impact on employment and the local, regional or national economy. the request concerns 488 workers made redundant in three companies - sa carwall, caterpillar belgium sa, doosan sa - in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector, following earlier requests already concerning the same companies. the conversation is always the same: the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the ec treaty in respect of the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a global loan for the financing of a project to develop a new steel plant in the united kingdom. every new approval of this fund is a vivid libel against capitalism, against the eu and its neoliberal policies. the hainaut region is facing a difficult labour market situation with an unemployment rate of 14,5% (5,9% above the national average) and support is therefore needed for the workers affected. but more than palliatives, what is required is a change in policy that makes these palliatives unnecessary.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to belgium, which submitted an application egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment, n.e.) in the nuts level 2 region of hainaut (be32) and estimated at 488 redundant workers and 300 young people in the province of hainaut who are not in employment, education or training (neet).
‒ belgium applied for an egf contribution following redundancies in carwall sa, caterpillar belgium sa and doosan sa, and it is estimated that 488 redundant workers and 300 young people from the province of hainaut who are not in employment, education or training (neets) and under 25 years of age will be involved in the measures. the application complies with article 4 (2) of the egf regulation, which provides for a derogation as regards the number of workers made redundant, and therefore belgium is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 under that regulation, representing 60% of the total cost of eur 3 040 069. i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies. i believe that the measures to reintegrate the dismissed workers into the labour market, avoiding the consequences of a significant impact on the economy of hainaut, should be approved.
‒ this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide belgium with eur 1 824 041 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by three companies in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector, which has suffered from the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure in the eu and has been severely affected by the considerable increase in steel prices in europe. the analysis carried out showed that the application met the conditions for allocating the funds provided for in the eagf regulation, and i therefore voted in favour of this financial contribution, which will be channelled towards supporting, guiding and integrating workers made redundant, with a view to facilitating job search, support for business creation, collective projects and training grants. the 300 young people who are not working, studying or in training will also be covered by mobilisation and guidance measures to start complementary education and training actions within the framework of the eligible actions provided for in article 7 of the egf regulation.
‒ in order to ensure a uniform and effective application throughout the european union of all measures of the recovery plan adopted between 2012 and 2014, this proposal aims to integrate them into a regulation. the proposal contains technical measures, such as those relating to live transfer and caging operations of bluefin tuna, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate bluefin tuna quantities and releases, catch reporting requirements and the implementation of the iccat regional observation programme.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the legislative proposal published by the commission to update the previous directive on the conservation of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean regions, which had been in force since 2009. this multiannual plan is part of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). the multiannual plans have potential, but they suffer from some of the limitations and constraints inherent in the cfp itself. there are positive aspects, which we highlight: - the establishment of quotas takes account of the guidelines of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat); - the regulation is being extended to include a number of amendments that give value to traditional fishing techniques and coastal fishing, which are considered to be sustainable techniques, in particular through the use of objective criteria for the allocation of quotas at national level; - the role of iccat observers is being enhanced. the trend of increasing bluefin tuna stocks has led iccat to increase the quota by 20%. we are in favour of a management of fisheries resources based on scientific knowledge, and the measures adopted under this plan seem appropriate. we voted in favour. we reiterate the need to increase the portuguese bluefin tuna quota, a just aspiration of azorean fishermen.
‒ this proposal aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna (bft) recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) 1 at its annual sessions between 2012 and 2014. this legislative initiative aims to ensure the uniform and effective implementation of the latest measures of the iccat multiannual recovery plan for bft throughout the european union. the relevant conservation and management measures set out in the iccat recommendations are not directly applicable to individual vessels or union nationals. it is therefore necessary to transpose into union law the iccat measures concerning bft adopted in 2012, 2013 and 2014. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) of the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo), responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas, to which the eu is a contracting party, has the authority to adopt decisions (recommendations) for the conservation and management of fisheries in its area of competence. those acts are binding and should be transposed into union law. bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by iccat. fishermen have made efforts to bring their catches into line with the total allowable catch, from 33 000 tonnes before the recovery plan to the minimum value in 2012 (12 900 tonnes). the stock has evolved positively and the tac has been increasing, reaching 15 821 tonnes in 2015 for the eu of 9 372,9 tonnes. i agree with the rapporteur on three points in particular: firstly, on the importance of the exact transposition of the iccat recommendations and their non-extrapolation; secondly, on the regrettable absence of the ep from the international negotiations; and lastly, on the need to take account of the specificities of the different tuna fishing gear, in particular the artisanal and traditional gear.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which is the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by iccat, which in 2006 adopted a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna until 2022. following this plan, it is found that the bluefin tuna biomass has been increasing in recent years. this plan provides for a gradual reduction in the level of the total allowable catch (tac), fishing restrictions in certain zones and periods, a new minimum size for catches, measures related to sport and recreational fishing activities as well as fishing and farming capacities and the strengthening of the iccat joint international inspection programme. following the evaluation of the measures adopted by this recovery plan between 2012 and 2014, this proposal decides to integrate them into a regulation, with a view to ensuring a more effective and simpler application of these measures in the waters of the european union. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gato report because i agree with the balance achieved in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i would like to stress the amendments proposed by the european socialist group to pay particular attention to the preservation and prosperity of small-scale, artisanal and traditional fishermen who use traps and other selective fishing methods and to the encouragement of such methods so that they are not penalized by the criteria for allocating national quotas.
‒ cod, herring and sprat account for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years. the baltic sea is a nearly enclosed body of water in which these three species are omnipresent and interact continuously. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that the rules allow for the interactions between the species covered to be recognised, in particular the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa. given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, it is appropriate to be able to adapt the rates and exploitation patterns of these stocks in the light of the evolution of scientific knowledge on those interactions and on the evolution of environmental conditions.
‒ the multiannual plan, one of the instruments underpinning the common fisheries policy (cfp) 2012 reform has as its primary objective to maintain stocks above levels that will allow a maximum sustainable yield. the proposed amendments to this effect have some positive aspects, such as the shortening of the periods between assessments, which could allow for ecologically appropriate catch levels, facilitating a socioeconomic approach to fishing in this region and an equally more appropriate approach to the protection of by-catch species. the report limits the commission's powers to take ancillary acts without consulting parliament and the council. we advocate the practice of consultation and participation not only of the regional advisory councils but also of the member states. there is a trend towards relaxing the limits and time periods to reach the levels needed for the sustainability of stocks, in particular by increasing the target range of mortality rates, and the minimum level of spawning biomass, or by making the proposed limits for 2015 to be met only in 2020. the multiannual plans have potential, but they suffer from some of the limitations and constraints inherent in the cfp itself.
‒ the objective of this proposal is to establish a management plan for the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks. the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the latest scientific information on interactions within and between stocks, as well as other elements of the ecosystem and the environment. the specific objective of the initiative is to ensure that the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, in accordance with the principles of maximum sustainable yield and an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management. to that end, the stocks concerned should be fished at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to establish a framework for the management of multiple species of the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, where these three species are the main target of fishing. cod, herring and sprat account for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years. i agree with the rapporteur that the multi-species management plan for the baltic sea is the right choice. the multi-species management approach is much more effective than the single-species management approach. the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen. i also share the rapporteur's position on the protection of cod stocks during spawning and on the protection of small-scale artisanal fishing. given the innovative and pioneering nature of the multi-species management plan, i advocate its analysis and consequently revision after the third year of its validity, in order to ensure the desired flexibility of the plan.
‒ given the characteristics of the water body of this sea, these three species are ubiquitous and interact continuously, so it is of the utmost importance to ensure that regulations recognise the interactions between them. cod, herring and sprat are important components of the baltic ecosystem and, given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the stocks of these species, it is desirable to be able to adapt exploitation patterns for these stocks in the light of the evolution of the latest scientific knowledge on those interactions and on the evolution of environmental conditions. this report reflects agreement with the commission's proposal on the integration of balanced and sustainable exploitation of these species, which i support and therefore voted in favour of.
‒ i voted in favour of the wałęsa report on the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, as i consider it a crucial step towards the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy. this plan is the first multiannual eu management plan under the reform of the common fisheries policy and will serve as a model for other sea basin plans. the objective is to establish a multi-species fisheries plan aimed at restoring, achieving and maintaining the populations of cod, herring and sprat species in the baltic sea above levels that can generate the maximum sustainable yield, while minimising as much as possible the impact on other species such as seabirds and the marine environment in general.
‒ in 2011, the commission presented a proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters. this measure is part of a package of instruments designed to make life easier for transnational couples, which are becoming increasingly common in the european union. however, no consensus could be reached in the council, which has exclusive competence in these matters and is bound by unanimity. a group of 18 member states, including portugal, therefore wished to take the measures forward, using the enhanced cooperation mechanism. it is this enhanced cooperation which is adopted today, the text of which welcomes the significant proposals of the european parliament made during the first negotiating procedure between all the member states. in the context of enhanced cooperation, the european parliament has to assess, among other criteria, the respect for national competences, which is the case here. the competences of the member states in the field of family law, in particular as regards the recognition of marriage, shall be fully respected. i therefore support this report.
‒ this regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples in the european union. it covers, in matters of matrimonial property regimes, the applicable jurisdiction and law, and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. however, it excludes from its scope, inter alia, questions relating to the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is therefore safeguarded. i believe that this proposal for a regulation is clearly in the interest of the union and its international partners. it will help to eliminate many cases of confusion and legal difficulty.
‒ the report approves the european commission's proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. the regulation will be a useful tool for international couples in the eu. today, as a result of the high mobility of people between eu member states, couples face a number of bureaucratic difficulties when dealing with property or division issues, when divorcing or when one of the partners dies. there are problems when property is acquired in different member states, for example. this regulation covers jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters. however, its scope does not cover issues such as the legal capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations or the succession of property of a deceased spouse. the regulation also does not affect social security rights or pension rights in the event of divorce. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is preserved. nor does the regulation affect the substantive law of the member states on matrimonial property regimes. we supported the opening of the process of cooperation between states on this matter and we voted in favour of this report.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to create a clear legal framework in the european union for the determination of the competent court and the law applicable to matrimonial property regimes and to facilitate the circulation of decisions and acts in this field between the different member states. the aim of this proposal is to establish a complete set of rules of private international law applicable to matrimonial property regimes. it therefore covers jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters. the rules laid down apply exclusively to situations of a transnational nature. the cross-border effect requirement of article 81 (3) is thus fulfilled. this proposal concerns only the matrimonial property regime and does not define the institution of marriage or require the recognition of a marriage in another member state. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the regulation covers, in matters of matrimonial property regimes, jurisdiction and the applicable law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments. however, matters relating to the capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse are excluded from its jurisdiction. it is important to emphasise that the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is safeguarded. the regulation also clearly defines the court with jurisdiction to rule on applications for marriage licenses. i believe that this proposal is in the interest of the european union, as it provides clarity, legal certainty and legal certainty, particularly for so-called international couples.
‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters was blocked by a lack of unanimity in the negotiations between the member states and was referred to parliament after an enhanced cooperation procedure. since this is a special legislative procedure under article 81 (3) tfeu, the european parliament has been consulted to deliver its opinion. the regulation deals with family law matters with crossborder implications, and lays down a set of measures of significant importance for international couples in the european union as regards jurisdiction, scope, recognition and enforcement of decisions. the autonomy of the member states is safeguarded, taking into account the parliament's request for the maintenance of competence in matters of matrimonial property regimes, the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, as well as maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse. as it is a regulation of major interest to the eu and to international couples, in that it removes ambiguities and facilitates the simplification and interpretation of the crossborder matrimonial regime, and as all the proposals put forward by parliament have been taken into account, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the commission put forward a proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships, commonly referred to in our system as 'de facto unions'. this measure is part of a package of instruments designed to make life easier for transnational couples, which are becoming increasingly common in the european union. however, no consensus could be reached in the council, which has exclusive competence in these matters and is bound by unanimity. a group of 18 member states, including portugal, therefore wished to take the measures forward, using the enhanced cooperation mechanism. it is this enhanced cooperation which is adopted today, the text of which welcomes the significant proposals of the european parliament made during the first negotiating procedure between all the member states. in the context of enhanced cooperation, the european parliament has to assess, among other criteria, the respect for national competences, which is the case here. the competences of the member states in the field of family law, in particular as regards the recognition of de facto unions, shall be fully respected. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ there are about 16 million international couples in the eu. the parallel litigation in different countries, the complexity of the proceedings and the resulting high legal costs represent an estimated €1.1 billion per year. i think it is important to clarify which national court has jurisdiction to help international couples - united by marriage or registered partnership - manage their property or divide it in the event of divorce, separation or death (rules of jurisdiction) and which law applies when the laws of different countries are potentially applicable to the proceedings (rules of applicable law). the new rules should also facilitate the recognition and enforcement in one member state of a judgment on a matter of property law given in another member state.
‒ the report approves the european commission's proposal on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on property regimes in registered partnerships. the regulation will be a useful tool for international couples/partnerships in the eu. today, as a result of the high mobility of people between eu member states, couples face a number of bureaucratic difficulties when dealing with property or division issues, when divorcing or when one of the partners dies. there are problems when property is acquired in different member states, for example. this regulation covers jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters. however, its scope does not cover issues such as the legal capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations or the succession of property of a deceased spouse. the regulation also does not affect social security rights or pension rights in the event of divorce. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is preserved. nor does the regulation affect the substantive law of the member states in matrimonial/registered partnership systems. we supported the opening of the process of cooperation between states on this matter and we voted in favour of this report.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for the determination of the court having jurisdiction and the law applicable to the property consequences of registered partnerships and to facilitate the circulation of decisions and acts in this field between the different member states. the aim of this proposal is to establish a complete set of rules of private international law applicable to the property effects of registered partnerships. it therefore covers jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the rules laid down apply exclusively to situations of a transnational nature. the cross-border effect requirement of article 81 (3) is thus fulfilled. this proposal concerns only the property effects of registered partnerships, and does not define the institution of the registered partnership or require recognition of a registered partnership in another member state. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the regulation covers, in respect of the property consequences of registered partnerships, the applicable jurisdiction and law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments. however, it excludes from its scope, inter alia, questions relating to the capacity of partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a partnership, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased partner. it is important to emphasise that the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is safeguarded. the regulation also clearly defines the court with jurisdiction to rule on applications for the property rights of registered partnerships. i believe that this proposal is in the interest of the european union, as it provides clarity, legal certainty and legal certainty, particularly for so-called international couples.
in writing. this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships creates a simplified european legal framework, ensuring compliance with the principle of the unity of law, within the legal regime applicable to the property of couples who are nationals of different member states. in fact, these couples are becoming increasingly representative within the european union. following parliament's recommendations, which have now been duly taken up by the commission, and in order to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected, the proposal seems to me to be balanced, since it does not conflict with the member states' powers, particularly as regards registered partnerships and their property effects. moreover, the document enshrines the so-called public policy clause, the provision of which seems to me to be essential, by ensuring that, in this context, the application of a provision of the law of a member state may be refused only if such application is manifestly incompatible with the public policy of the forum (see article 31 of the proposal). i therefore vote in favour.
‒ as in the other proposal on matrimonial property regimes, parliament is consulted on the report in the context of the proposal for a council regulation (also on enhanced cooperation) on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. in practice, what this regulation intends to do in this case is to clarify the rules applicable to registered partnerships in cross-border situations, thus covering couples who have assets in another eu country. it is therefore a highly advantageous instrument for international couples in the eu, covering jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the question of the capacity of the partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a partnership, and maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased partner, in order to ensure the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law, is excluded. given that this legislative proposal will bring more legal certainty and security by clarifying and simplifying a previously dubious matrimonial and partnership regime, i considered it essential to vote in favour of its adoption.
‒ the democratic republic of congo is currently facing a serious humanitarian and security situation, with signs of deterioration in the eastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups are carrying out massacres and widespread sexual violence and recruitment of children, with an estimated 7.5 million people in need of assistance. i support the present resolution which condemns these acts and calls for an end to belligerent violence with a view to a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict and calls on the international criminal court to investigate these abuses, and that those responsible for war crimes, crimes against humanity, the recruitment of child soldiers and sexual violence against minors and adults be identified and punished in accordance with national and international criminal law. i also condemn the attacks on humanitarian workers and the blocking of access to humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ between october 2014 and may 2016, in the territories of beni, lubero and butembo, more than 1160 people were brutally killed, more than 1470 people are missing, many homes, health centers and schools were burned and many women, men and children were victims of sexual violence. humanitarian actors estimate that 7.5 million people are currently in need of assistance and the ongoing conflict and military operations have also led to the internal displacement of 1.5 million people and forced more than 400,000 to flee the country. i therefore express my deep concern at the escalation of violence and the worrying and increasingly serious humanitarian situation in the drc, and i agree with the call for the belligerents to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children in their ranks and promote dialogue with a view to a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict.
‒ the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is worrying and serious, and the intentions of this resolution are to highlight this concern. this resolution is part of a process of interference and destabilisation in the region, which aims to restore the power and control of the former european colonial powers over the immense natural resources of the country, thus exploiting the conflicts there, using them to their advantage. the resolution conceals the destabilising role of european countries in the drc, for example belgium. there is no call for accountability, no attack on multinationals and their role in financing armed groups. he has not a single word to condemn nato's militarist and interventionist role, nor the strengthening of its military presence through the us military command africom. underlying the criticism of the un mission monusco, whose role and intervention must of course be controlled, is the desire to bring other forces and perhaps nato into the field. it is also intended to contribute to the destabilisation of the political situation in the country as elections approach. we are in favour of non-proliferation of weapons, non-militarisation of the region, support for a political and peaceful solution to conflicts, the sovereignty of peoples and the dismantling of africom.
‒ security in the drc continues to deteriorate in the eastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups remain active, with many reports of massacres, recruitment and use of children by armed groups, widespread sexual and gender-based violence. the international community as a whole must therefore make efforts to find a peaceful solution to this serious conflict with serious consequences for the population, especially the most vulnerable - women, the elderly and children. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in 2013, the congolese army brought the designated rebel group m23 under control, raising hopes that the environment of insecurity in eastern congo would evolve towards pacification. however, several armed groups remain active, and the environment of insecurity, ethnic and political divisions, and conflict in the mining sector remains. recently, radical groups have committed a number of human rights violations, including massacres of civilians and abductions of aid workers. the eu is providing humanitarian aid to the democratic republic of congo and in this context should use its influence to promote permanent political dialogue, both with the other international institutions monitoring the situation and with the countries in the region and the congolese authorities, with a view to putting an end to the violations of rights and crimes against humanity and to restoring peace and security in the region. i therefore vote in favour of this report, since i consider it important that the european union should play an active role in respecting human rights and in bringing peace and political stability to the region.
‒ the situation of insecurity in the east of the democratic republic of the congo is today - as it has been for several decades - deeply alarming. in eastern provinces, armed conflicts that have lasted for more than 20 years have escalated, with frequent reports of massacres, recruitment of children, gender discrimination and widespread sexual violence. considered the bloodiest conflict since world war ii, the ongoing humanitarian and military crisis in the democratic republic of congo has already caused the death of some 5 million people. i condemn all those responsible for these conflicts and stress the importance of the procedures aimed at their denunciation and punishment in accordance with the rules of national and international criminal law. i also note that the attacks on the staff of humanitarian organisations, which are primarily concerned with the imperatives of independence, neutrality and impartiality, are truly deplorable. i therefore support this joint resolution and stress the importance of the european union and its member states maintaining assistance to the people of the democratic republic of the congo.
‒ the climate of civil war by armed groups in eastern congo remains extremely worrying, with the recruitment and use of children for war scenarios and systematic sexual violence against vulnerable population groups. it is important that the european parliament expresses its strongest condemnation of these atrocities and expresses its deepest solidarity with the congolese people, giving a clear signal that it is following this catastrophic humanitarian situation closely and with great concern. the international criminal court should conduct investigations to establish whether abuses have occurred and consider the need to investigate the crimes allegedly committed. the eu, for its part, must adopt a coherent policy on arms and raw materials trade, while also ensuring that the negotiations on agreements in this region are consistent with the values of peace, stability, development and human rights. it should also consider the possibility of applying sanctions to those responsible for these massacres in eastern congo. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider that we are facing very serious violations of the most basic and essential human rights and because i subscribe to the substance of the measures contained in this motion for a resolution.
‒ the ef2020 strategic framework was taken over by the commission in cooperation with the member states in 2014, and in 2015 the commission and the council published a report on the complex outlook of the framework. i support the krasnodebski report and, in particular, the new generation of working groups under the framework with a greater representation of the different parties by including a greater number of experts, young workers, representatives of civil society, teachers, etc. i also support the creation of an informal coordination body including several high-level commission officials, representatives of civil society, social partners and the ep committee on culture and education, with the aim of ensuring better coordination, policy coherence and follow-up of the ef2020 recommendations. stressing the need to focus more on the quality of education at all levels and the importance of general basic skills in teaching and learning, such as ict, mathematics, critical thinking, foreign languages, mobility, etc., which enable young people to adapt easily to a changing social and economic context.
‒ the joint report published by the commission and the council addresses the problem of the complex picture of the ef 2020 strategic framework, which has not always been clearly understood by some participants or by a part of the community at large. some member states should continue to improve the way they interact with formal and informal structures, ensuring that the right people are sent to the right meetings and that the use of substitutes is minimised. urgent action is therefore needed at national and european level, within the framework of the ef 2020 strategic framework, in the area of education and training for adult asylum seekers newly arrived in europe. given that education is key to integration and employability, failure to address this challenge by national systems could lead to a worsening of social disparities and cultural segregation and thus intensify the existing trend towards the formation of parallel societies.
‒ cooperation and exchange of good practice between member states in the fields of education and training can be positive. however, it is important to examine the content, background of ef 2020 and its priorities. the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (ef 2020) is part of the eu's neoliberal approach. both the initial and the new priorities seek to harmonise the education and training systems of the member states with the eu's economic and employment policies. the report contains positive aspects, critical of the current state of education and training. but it cannot differentiate itself from the eu's dominant approach. mobility, employability and entrepreneurship are examples. under ef 2020, education and training are placed at the service of market demands. a reductive and erroneous view, which we disagree with. although we agree with some of the points in the report, taken in isolation, they are contradictory to the overall view underlying it. the objectives of reducing early school leaving and increasing the number of young people with a higher education qualification should not be met at the expense of quality in education, the report says. i'll take that. but what are the 'relevant qualifications and competences'? relevant to who? the devil (also) is in the details.
‒ education and training should not only be designed to meet the needs of the labour market, but also be an intrinsic value in themselves, since education plays as important a role in the development of ethics and civic responsibility as it does in respecting the democratic principles on which europe was founded. education should contribute to the personal development, mutual respect and growth of young people, in order to make them self-motivated, responsible and conscious citizens, with civic, social and cross-cultural skills, as well as qualified professionals. inclusive and high-quality training and education are essential for cultural, economic and social development. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the 'education and training 2020' strategy establishes cooperation between the union and its member states in the field of education and training, adopting a lifelong learning perspective in order to ensure coherence between the various measures taken to promote education and training from childhood to adulthood. cooperation in this area is voluntary and actions at union level should therefore support and complement national actions. education and training are important pillars for training as citizens and for acquiring the professional skills needed to enter the labour market. training and education also play a key role in the delivery of union policies, in particular the europe 2020 strategy, the digital single market, the european agenda for security and the investment plan for europe. in this respect, i am voting in favour, as i consider it crucial that the member states should seek to make the most of this cooperation with a view to promoting lifelong learning as a decisive driver of economic and social development in the union.
‒ education and training are essential to enable citizens to acquire the professional skills and knowledge needed to integrate into an increasingly competitive and innovative labour market, fostering a sense of identity and a culture based on respect for common european values. in a context where youth unemployment rates remain at worrying levels and where demographic challenges stemming from, among other factors, the current migration crisis are putting today's education and training systems in the european union to the test, the review of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (sef 2020), which has been drawn up by the commission in cooperation with the member states, is, in my view, of extraordinary relevance. in this area, the document emphasises the role of parents and the need to develop positive parenting, as well as the role of educators in integrating migrants and solving problems caused by the harmonisation of european educational practices. education is crucial for integration and employability. we therefore need new measures at national and european level to improve education systems and to take account of the importance of training and education for adult asylum seekers and their children. i vote in favour.
in writing. the evaluation of the strategic framework for education and training 2020 was carried out in 2014 and recommendations were considered to increase the added value of the framework and optimise its effectiveness. although the last decade has seen an increase in the number of people attending formal education, europe is unfortunately experiencing unprecedented levels of youth unemployment, affecting all levels of education, including young graduates. efforts to cultivate the knowledge economy and promote social inclusion were reflected in the europe 2020 strategy's major dual objective of setting a minimum threshold for education and increasing participation in higher education. education and training are important for the acquisition of professional skills and knowledge necessary for the training of motivated and fulfilled workers. i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the importance that these policies play in the formation of an active and responsible citizenry.
‒ the development of renewable energy sources requires a new approach that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. we have a responsibility to fight climate change and reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world so that we can organise our production model, create quality jobs and be at the forefront of developing technologies for energy transition. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is therefore a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid social and environmental externalities. the development of renewable energy will contribute to ensuring energy security and sovereignty, ending energy poverty and fostering the eu's economic development and technological leadership in combating climate change. the future r&d strategy should focus on facilitating the development of smart grids and smart cities. the electrification of transport, intelligent vehicle charging and 'vehicle-to-grid' technologies will contribute to improving energy efficiency and to unlocking the potential of renewable energy sources. i therefore support this report.
‒ regulation of the sector at european level should address the many problems holding back its development, by promoting public investment, democratic control and a stable framework for investment, in order to facilitate collective and democratic energy management and ensure a fully sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone. on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
the rapporteur's intentions were frustrated in part by a difficult context, arising from the composition and balance of power in this parliament. the amendments to the original version of the report did not improve it. the report nevertheless contains some positive aspects which lead us to support it. the report rightly points out that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority which cannot be left to the market alone. on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities. we must prevent energy oligopolies from being able to define europe's energy future. we would add that a condition for this democratic regulation of the sector is that it be owned and managed democratically by the public. this sector regulation, in which the sovereign choices of each member state must weigh decisively, should solve the many problems hampering the development of renewable energies. public investment, democratic control and a stable framework for investment should be encouraged in order to facilitate collective and democratic energy management and ensure a fully sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050, according to the report. the report advocates an ambitious political push to meet the targets set.
‒ the eu as a whole is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, although additional, strengthened measures are needed in some member states. we must therefore all continue to work together to achieve the stated objectives, to make the planet more sustainable for future generations. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ directive 2009/28/eu sets the european union as a target of 20% of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the commission's monitoring is strengthened to ensure that member states not only meet the objectives set out in the directive, but also adapt measures to that end. this includes measures to improve access to funding channels, or even the creation of a financial mechanism at eu level to support the implementation of these measures, as well as improving administrative procedures to take account of cost-benefit schemes. combining renewable energy and energy efficiency policies are key factors that can help reduce the eu's energy dependence, as the eu imports more than half of its energy consumption, representing 20% of total imports. i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i believe it is important that the european union has a long-term strategy to encourage investment in renewable energy.
‒ the european union has done exemplary work on renewable energy. this report, a true statement of science on the relevant social and environmental externalities of today's energy production models, warns of the need to regulate the sector, ensuring its competitiveness and preventing, for example, energy oligopolies. that said, in my view, and in the view of the group of which i am a member, this report has done well in emphasising renewable energy as one of the most effective ways of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and at the same time contributing to the creation of the so-called low-carbon economy. the report also encourages competitiveness and cost-effectiveness in the renewable energy market, without prejudice to the diversity and safeguarding of member states' competences in this field. and, not least, the document favours a sustainable energy system, in which dependence on subsidies is gradually supplied - and abolished - in a self-sufficient internal market regulated by the commission, especially as regards the price of energy. from what has been said, my vote is in favour.
‒ the future of the european union's energy model is fundamentally based on the development of renewable energy sources. to achieve this desired model, it is imperative that we combat climate change and reduce our dependence on external energy (especially fossil fuels), by creating our own production model, which is more environmentally friendly, generating quality jobs and fostering the creation of a new technological (strategic) era in this field. this energy production model must be a social priority, regulated and with broad participation of businesses and citizens, not dependent on the oligopolistic market and not entailing serious social and environmental externalities. directive 2009/28/ec is the anchor legislative instrument underpinning the entire energy transition process to be undertaken by member states by 2020, although more ambitious targets need to be set in the light of what was recently established in the paris agreement. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that this model of energy production must be developed, regulated at european level and made into an engine of economic growth capable of encouraging public investment, generating wealth, creating jobs and ensuring an energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable model in the long term.
‒ i voted in favour of the lópez bermejo report for sharing its conclusions, particularly in welcoming the european commission's proposed commitments in the field of renewable energy up to 2020 and the need to develop an ambitious legislative framework for the period after 2020. i stress that it is essential to set ambitious targets in line with the paris agreement and to produce more clean and renewable energy, to create wealth and jobs and to reduce strategic dependence on external suppliers. i would stress in this connection the exploitation of endogenous resources in a strategic area such as energy, a development which is possible, as the example of portugal well illustrates.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014, while eu gdp increased by 46% in the same period. the eu is therefore on track to meet its 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency. increasing energy efficiency and energy saving plays an important role in protecting the environment and the climate, enhancing the competitiveness of industry, creating jobs, ensuring security of supply and combating energy poverty. i support this report because i believe that economic, regulatory and administrative barriers must be removed to allow citizens to participate in the energy system. on the other hand, it is essential to start as soon as possible the transition to a more sustainable energy system based on renewable energies. the proper functioning of an internal energy market, including that for energy efficiency services, contributes to the optimisation of energy systems for the benefit of all consumers and to a substantial improvement in energy efficiency in europe.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014. in the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%. the european union is on track to meet its 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency. the concerns that have been raised are related to the reporting bureaucracy and the high levels of energy prices for average industrial consumers and households. the implementation of the directive is also important. in this respect, it should be noted first that the european union will achieve its 20% efficiency target by 2020 even if most member states have not fully implemented the directive. this demonstrates the strength of the market.
‒ energy efficiency is a hot topic, particularly for countries like portugal with a huge energy deficit and significant external dependence. the report deals with the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. it identifies interesting and relevant measures aimed at energy saving. but it does so within the narrow and restrictive framework of the so-called 'energy union' and the liberalising and deregulating vision that guides it. this is a fundamental reason for disagreement about its content. the report states that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014. it does not, however, mention the contribution to this of the economic crisis, any more than any energy paradigm transition. it's the market and its perversions. it criticises the high energy prices for average industrial consumers and households. it states that the effects of cost reduction through energy savings are eroded by state taxes. it is not the case that the european union is not a member of the wto, but that it is a member of the wto. it is also obvious that it ignores the need for democratic public control of the sector. meaning publicly owned and operated. as an indispensable means of achieving desired and proclaimed economic, social and environmental objectives.
‒ the eu is meeting its climate and energy targets for 2020 globally according to projections based on the principle of full implementation of all relevant legislation by 2020 (reduction of co2 emissions, increase in the share of renewable energy sources, boost energy efficiency) and should maintain its global leadership role. we must therefore all continue to work together to achieve the stated objectives, to make the planet more sustainable for future generations. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency directive 2012/27/eu establishes a common framework for promotion measures in the european union to ensure the achievement of the union's 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. achieving good levels of energy efficiency is also key to achieving the climate objectives set out at the paris summit in december 2015 and to reducing the european union's energy dependence on imports. although the implementation of the directive has triggered a number of positive changes in the member states, shortcomings in its implementation call into question its full effectiveness and the achievement of the objectives set out in this framework. in this regard, the directive should be revised in some of its aspects in order to promote a transition to a more sustainable and secure energy system and to ensure that consumers have access to information on the conditions and sources of energy supply, including through increased transparency and clarity in billing. in this respect, i vote in favour of this report as i consider the revision and full implementation of the directive to be essential if the energy efficiency objectives are to be achieved.
‒ the european union today has a key role to play in promoting intergenerational responsibility, with a particular responsibility to foster an energy system in which current generations are committed to fighting climate change for the benefit of future generations. in this line of reasoning, this report rightly stresses the importance of energy efficiency in meeting the so-called 'climate targets' and the need for a flexible and unbureaucratized energy system, which monitors and clarifies the definition of smes and state aid. however, i am of the opinion that the report is flawed. on the one hand, it enshrines an unsatisfactory solution to the 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 (also contained in the resolutions of 5 february 2014, 26 november 2014 and 15 october 2015). at the same time, the document is vague on the terms of decarbonisation in 2050, as much more could have been done in this area. finally, and this is not the least, the report does not include the minimum funding targets which, in my view, should be set at member state level. in that sense, my vote is against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the pieper report for agreeing with this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, including the finding that there is still a lot to be done in the area of energy performance of buildings and the call for a strong regulatory framework consisting of the adoption of objectives and measures to encourage and enable investment in energy efficiency and reduction of energy costs and consumption, while supporting competitiveness and sustainability. as i have said in the field of renewable energy, it is also essential in the field of energy efficiency to set ambitious targets in line with the paris agreement and to produce more clean and renewable energy, to create wealth and jobs and to reduce strategic dependence on external suppliers. i therefore believe that energy efficiency should be seen as the most sustainable measure within the framework of the obligation to reduce our energy consumption.
the decision to leave the eu is a major political event. it represents a fundamental change in the process of european capitalist integration and a new level of struggle for those who are fighting for a europe of the workers and peoples. the british people have sovereignly decided the destinies of their country. this must be respected, all the more so since this referendum took place in the context of gigantic and unacceptable pressure and blackmail, in particular from the large transnational economic groups and the large financial capital, as well as from organisations such as the imf, the oecd and the eu itself. this result is also a victory over fear, inevitability, submission and catastrophism. without ignoring the multiple motivations that were present in the call for this referendum and in a campaign driven by reactionary elements and open political manipulation which we oppose and reject head-on , the results of the referendum unquestionably express a rejection of eu policies. this referendum must be seen as an opportunity to confront and solve the real problems of the peoples, to question the whole process of capitalist integration and to open up a new and different path of cooperation in europe, of social progress and peace.
the british electorate has overwhelmingly decided that the country should no longer be part of the european union. this decision should be implemented safeguarding the interests and the future of the european project. the negotiation of the withdrawal process needs to be transparent and expeditious, following the formal request of the british government, in accordance with the provisions of the treaties. the european union will have to interpret the reasons for what has happened and take action. it was fear, in particular fear of unregulated globalisation, competition in the labour market and the erosion of rights and guarantees, exploited by populists, that led to the decision of the british people. the risk of this situation being exploited in other countries exists and must be combated politically. the eu must therefore act and put in place a strong programme of action to restore citizens' confidence in the european project as a path of peace, tolerance and a response to people's concrete problems. a process that can lead to a convention that consolidates change but that must not begin with it. we need immediate action, to make it happen and to counter fear with smart policies that focus on solutions to people's problems.
in the first place, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is unacceptable and it demonstrates the choices of the majority in this parliament with regard to respect (or lack thereof) for democracy and the sovereignty of the peoples. in the face of a legitimate and sovereign decision, a veiled blackmail is used, a kind of 'revenge' is rehearsed against the british people, on whom stigmas are cast which constitute immense dangers in a context in which the eu's policies - antisocial and disrespectful of the sovereignty of the peoples - are giving way to the growth of the far right. the resolution seeks to trigger a process of so-called 'negotiation' which in reality aims to turn the realisation of the will of a people into a real torture for that people and for a sovereign state, all within the framework of article 50 of the lisbon treaty. this resolution is contrary to reality. it is a leap forward that seeks to ignore the underlying problem that the british referendum expresses: the people of europe are increasingly expressing their opposition to the eu and its policies. another europe is needed. a europe which rejects exploitation and oppression and is based on cooperation, peace, solidarity, mutual respect and the defence of the sovereignty of peoples.
‒ the uk represents the eu's second largest economy, with 65 million consumers, is important to the geostrategic balance of the 28 and is leaving the political space that successfully aggregates the major powers that fought in the first and second world wars. the uk's departure is a loss for the eu, but it will also be a serious problem for the british, with almost half voting to remain in the eu, and scotland and northern ireland overwhelmingly in favour. my vote is a vote of respect for the will of the british people.
‒ the referendum that took place in the united kingdom was, in my view, wrapped up in a campaign that was unclear and not transparent about the real causes of a possible exit from the european project. however, we must respect the majority of the uk citizens and their wish to leave this union of 28. i therefore believe that the british government should notify the council and the commission as soon as possible and that negotiations under article 50 of the tfeu should be opened as soon as possible. we must not allow this process to create any more uncertainty, and the union and the united kingdom must begin to design the new relationship between them. we have a duty to look at the european project and to bring it closer to the people. we must make an effort to respond to the aspirations of the european citizens. we must never forget that this project has made peace, prosperity and stability in europe possible. we need a europe of and for the people. we must not fall into a policy of national protectionism because we are stronger together.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion, because, although i regret the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom, it is important to respect the will of the british people. in this sense, i believe that the negotiations for the uk's withdrawal from the european union should be held as soon as possible, minimising as much as possible this potential economic, financial and social impact.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the way in which this resolution uses and manipulates the invocation of article 50 teu to start the process of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu, intending that it be completely conditioned by the will of the directory of powers and conducted in the institutions of the european union dominated by them, demonstrates the aim of basing this process on blackmail and pressure on the free decision of the british people. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union with a single currency, the euro, and for the european union to be able to play a more active role in the world economy. the ppe meps reaffirm that another europe is necessary and possible. a europe which rejects exploitation and oppression and is based on cooperation, peace, solidarity, mutual respect and the defence of the sovereignty of peoples.
madam president, this is a humanitarian crisis generated by war, which requires us to respond quickly and effectively. europe, founded on the ideal of peace, which has lived through similar tragedies, has a duty to welcome human beings who are trying to escape death and who are asking us for help. refugees are not economic migrants, and we must raise our voices to refute the extremist and xenophobic accusations that those who fight for life are economic opportunists. but once refugees are in the community, they must respect our rules and our culture and become active contributors to the society of the host member state. this is integration which must be based on a combination of rights and duties, guaranteeing equal treatment for european citizens. access to the labour market remains a challenge for europeans. we must ensure that newcomers are successfully integrated into society, and their integration into the european labour market is essential and must be complementary and not clash with the internal situation. we need effective and transparent mechanisms for validating their skills, academic qualifications and professional experience. at this point, it's vital that we don't get lost in red tape, without, of course, neglecting our own safety. the moment demands deliberation and the involvement of all europeans, but also the personal effort of each of those who are welcomed. the commission has taken good initiatives to resolve this problem, but it has run into the selfish and nationalistic interests of many member states. if this were an economic problem, it would have been solved long ago.
madam president, commissioner, i am pleased to see that we are seeing greater implementation of these programmes at member state level. but what is essential is that a qualitative analysis be made so that we know what the results of these programmes are actually at european level. we cannot accept situations where member states are masking the unemployment figures by perpetuating themselves in traineeships and training and ensuring that our young people do not have an effective insertion into the quality labour market afterwards, and therefore this control is absolutely essential. and that is why, commissioner, we need to carry out very careful monitoring and evaluation which cannot - and i repeat - be merely quantitative but also qualitative and as much as possible individualised, so that we can combat the abuses of companies which are becoming experts in traineeships and which make our young people eternally dependent on these mechanisms. on the other hand, when we talk about extending the initiative - which i support, and i will tell you my position, commissioner - we must also be sure that there is indeed a differentiation throughout europe in the way these programmes are implemented. unemployment in my region, for example in the azores, is one of the highest in europe and we cannot, we cannot have the same answers in the azores that we offer, for example, to a region in germany, which has one of the lowest unemployment rates. we must ensure that differentiation.
tackling youth unemployment is one of the european union's most significant challenges. the aim is to promote social cohesion by ensuring a secure career path and the consequent development of a life project for the new generations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. without secure employment there is no emancipation of young people and without this it becomes difficult to ensure a sustainable economic and social development roadmap. the 'youth guarantee' programme, which was launched at an early stage, was one of the ways forward. it mainly affects the transition between the training course and contact with the labour market. it is not, of course, without criticism or completely adequate to the needs. as has been said both in this parliament and in other forums, some points which have been less well achieved need to be improved. it is therefore necessary to evaluate in depth the results achieved so far and to do so by seeking to take into account the real impact of this programme on actual job creation. europe can do better in combating this scourge.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. mr president, we appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur in the preparation of this report, particularly with regard to the absolute need to respect and value labour rights and conditions and the role of the international labour organisation. but, apart from the recommendations i can make from this plenary, we must not lose sight of the fact that social responsibility is being abused by the big european economic and financial groups: when they promote the relocation of companies and labour and social dumping, when they attack collective bargaining and workers' representative organisations, when they promote the exploitation of resources and workers in third countries by digging up social and gender discrimination. it will not be the european union's trade policy that will reverse this reality. this shows that it is time to reject the lisbon treaty also as regards trade relations and that it should be up to each country to define its trade policies and agreements in accordance with its interests and needs.
mr president, the commission's trade strategy is advertised as being for everyone and based on values, which of course justifies the support of this parliament. but aligning the trade agenda with sustainable development is not just about words, it has to be about contractual clauses and concrete measures. the european union has a duty to use its trade clout to promote sustainable development worthy of the name, and this is particularly true in its strategic partnership with the acp countries which are now defining their post-2020 framework. i therefore ask the commission to listen to this parliament and to ensure that existing or newly negotiated trade agreements are monitored and evaluated and that civil society is involved and parliament is involved in this evaluation. because only then can we be sure that, beyond words, the union's trade agenda serves sustainable development and deserves the trust of citizens.
this debate reflects the deep contradictions of a neoliberal system based on free trade and a purely commercial logic, which subjugates everything and everyone in the name of profit. as reality shows, it is not through vague and non-binding rules that we will improve the lot of those who are exploited inside and outside the european union. what about the human rights clause in the association agreement between israel and the european union? has this agreement ever been called into question, despite the repeated violations of human rights suffered daily by the palestinian people in their own territory? as long as free trade and the private interests of large companies prevail, the well-meaning words of this house will not be able to impose corporate social responsibility. we therefore advocate a new model of cooperation which is mutually beneficial for both parties and which respects the sovereignty of the national states.
a blackmail and interference operation is now under way in several sovereign states of the european union, including portugal. there is not a day that passes without statements being made by european union officials about the possibility of sanctions against portugal. instead of acknowledging the complete failure of the austerity measures which largely explain the evolution of our public accounts, the european commission - in an act of pure revanchism - attacks portugal and its people for having decided to put an end to the austerity programme which led portugal to disaster. yes, the 35-hour working day has been reinstated, yes, many of the abominable cuts imposed by the troika have been reversed, particularly in wages and pensions, because that was the sovereign will of the portuguese people which was expressed last october. we not only reject the sanctions, but we also reject this straitjacket which prevents portugal and its people from deciding their future. we therefore propose the reversibility of the treaties, the suspension of the budgetary treaty and the abrogation of the treaty of lisbon.
madam president, the way to deal with the uk after the british referendum has already been clearly defined by both parliament and the european council so we are here today to discuss the more general implications of the brexit in terms of a european direction. the starting point is the concern expressed by european citizens when they ask how we can get control of our lives, and in fact there is a choice to be made about this. the choice i see is clear: it should be based on better european solutions because, in the face of larger migration flows, we cannot go back to national borders. we need instead to build up a real european border, to host refugees and to manage migration with the origin countries. in the face of the problems we have regarding global challenges, we cannot just play with our little economies. we need to build up a more effective european trade policy and global strategy; and, in the face of poor recovery and job creation, we need to make the best of the european scale. this means the single market and the eurozone, provided they are really able to deliver quality jobs and more economic and social convergence. so what we need is not to go back to national borders. what we need is better european solutions, and better european solutions can only be defined by the community method, with the commission proposing, the european parliament discussing and then with ongoing interaction with the european council, the council and the national parliaments. tomorrow the european parliament will deliver an initial contribution to the road map which we need to define and implement.
madam president, faced with brexit and other evidence of citizens' disengagement from the european project, we need a leap forward, an abandonment of ultra-liberal austerity, a backward path to the union. instead, the council is in denial. it seems that no longer are there asylum duties, human rights, not even refugees, evaporated, thanks to the eu-turkey deal, replicated with oppressive african regimes. the council's conclusions focus on the return of migrants and border control. the council is thus allowing the xenophobic far right to set its agenda, just as it is allowing dr schäuble to force the intergovernmental drift, now instigating unjust and immoral sanctions against portugal and spain. a dr schäuble, a dr strangelove, who could end up destroying the union if the council and the commission do not agree and quickly get their act together.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i should like to say first of all that, naturally, as a portuguese, portugal is the country with the oldest treaty of alliance and cooperation with the united kingdom. it's dated 1386. naturally this was a decision viewed with great apprehension. i must say, however, that we must stick to a few principles. the first principle is that we should give the united kingdom some time to organise its proposal, since it was incomprehensibly unprepared and, moreover, all those with responsibilities for the withdrawal had fled the scene. the second idea, which i think is very important, is to be very firm with the uk: if you want to have access to the single market you have to respect the four freedoms, if you want another type of agreement you will have another type of agreement, but you will certainly not be in a better situation than you are today. it is absolutely essential to maintain this principle. and thirdly, i think it is essential to maintain the best possible relationship, the best possible agreement with the united kingdom. obviously we look at the british with a great, shall we say, sense of common belonging. we feel that we belong to the same civilization and the same community and therefore we have every interest in having a good agreement with the british. now it cannot be at the expense of these principles. and finally, i would urge the member states, and in particular the governments and the council, to agree on important progress in terms of integration into the union, because that is the best response we can give, in terms of globalisation, to this sad news that we had on 23 june.
as a europeanist, she was in favour of the uk remaining in the european union. as portuguese, even more so, given the old alliance and the same atlantic vocation. the result of the referendum, however, cannot be ignored by the european union. although not legally binding on the british parliament, this was a sovereign decision of the british people. the impact on the european union is not insignificant. the union is required to act in accordance with the treaties. in other words, wait for the formal notification to - and only then - start the exit negotiations with the united kingdom. it will obviously not be an easy process, but it need not be contentious. the united kingdom remains a european country and will be a privileged partner of the union. however, any future relationship must not jeopardise the following fundamental principles: the internal market is not a la carte and if port-wine trucks can enter freely, portuguese workers must also be able to enter the british labour market freely. this will be a crucial point: guaranteeing the rights of the portuguese community living in the united kingdom. it is up to the eu to respond to the aspirations of its citizens and not to reopen institutional disputes.
in writing. looking at the conclusions of this european council it is easy to conclude what happened to the post-brexit claims about the need for an alleged refoundation of the (mis) so-called european project: we are facing a blatant leap forward, which seeks to overcome deep and growing contradictions, deepening the most negative aspects of eu policies and further concentrating power within the eu. it is a question of the future of the european union, and it is a question of the future of the european union. migration and migration. in view of the tragic consequences of the eu-turkey agreement, the eu is now proposing to conclude similar agreements with other countries, particularly in africa. blackmailing them into agreeing to submit to eu migration policy and doing the dirty work of detaining migrants (or accepting those the eu decides to expel). the european semester the procession of impositions - in all respects similar to those of previous years - profoundly contrary to the interests of the people and at the root of the protracted crisis in which several member states have been plunged continues. the commission is also proposing a five large countries concentrate more than 90% of investments (in public-private partnerships). for 22 member states, including portugal, not a penny. it's all said. new impetus in eu-nato cooperation that is, new steps in the strategy of militarism and war.
in writing. the assertions that have followed brexit about the need for an alleged refoundation of the so-called 'european project' show that we are facing a brazen leap forward, which aims to overcome deep and deepening contradictions, highlighting the most negative aspects of eu policies and further concentrating power within it. we are even more convinced of the irreformability of european capitalist integration. faced with the tragic consequences of the eu-turkey deal, the eu is now proposing to conclude similar agreements with other countries, notably in africa, blackmailing them into agreeing to submit to the eu's migration policy and doing the dirty work of detaining migrants (or accepting those the eu decides to expel). the european semester continues to be marked by impositions - similar to those of previous years - which are profoundly contrary to the interests of the people and which are at the root of the protracted crisis in which several member states are plunged.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the republic of peru, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and peruvian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement will boost tourism and help to intensify trade and investment relations. peru recorded one of the highest economic growth rates in latin america (5% in 2013 and 2.4% in 2014). the country has been growing continuously by more than 80% over the last ten years, placing it among the top ten countries in the world with the highest growth rate over the period under review. moreover, the eu remains the largest investor in peru, accounting for more than 50% of total foreign direct investment in sectors such as the extractive industries, banking and finance.
‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the member states of the european union and for citizens of peru travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days for each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. as in the case of other similar agreements recently approved, we are not opposed to this facilitation of the movement of people, and we have voted in favour of this recommendation, in contrast to the rapporteur's instrumental approach (focused on promoting business).
this agreement shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the official journal of the european union. in order to ensure equal treatment of all eu citizens, a provision has been included in the agreement under which peru may only suspend or terminate the agreement in respect of all member states of the european union and, reciprocally, the union may only suspend or terminate the agreement in respect of all its member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this agreement is part of the effort to deepen the european union's relations with the republic of peru. as regards trade relations, the eu was peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports and the main recipient of its exports. this agreement could have a strong impact on the tourism sector as it will facilitate the entry and exit of citizens, contributing to strengthening economic, investment and cultural relations between the two continents. the agreement concluded between the union and peru provides for the exemption from the visa requirement of citizens of the union and of peru when travelling to the territory of one of the contracting parties for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. however, member states which do not fully apply the acquis communautaire in the field of the schengen area are excluded from the application of this agreement. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i believe it will strengthen relations between the union and the republic of peru.
‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and peruvian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this agreement was signed on 14 march 2016 and is provisionally applied subject to the approval of the european parliament. it provides not only for the simplification of the procedure for issuing short-stay visas between the contracting parties but also for the exemption of european union citizens and peruvian citizens from the visa requirement for short stays. i consider that the approval of this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru. this will also be a means of strengthening cultural and economic relations between the parties, the peruvian economy being one of the fastest growing in south america. at the same time, the republic of peru is a stable democracy, because the agreement will also allow for intensified political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. on illegal immigration, the agreement contains - and rightly so - a joint declaration of cooperation, in which both parties recall their commitment to the readmission of irregular immigrants. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ this agreement on visa waiver for short stays is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and constitutes an additional and essential means to strengthen economic and cultural relations as well as to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in may 2015, the commission opened negotiations for a bilateral agreement between the european union (eu) and the republic of peru on visa waiver, following an overall positive assessment. the agreement was signed in march 2016 and has been applied provisionally, pending approval by the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and peruvian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days for each 180-day period. this agreement is the result of the deepening of relations between the eu and peru following the trade agreement and constitutes an additional means of intensifying political dialogue. peru has one of the highest economic growth rates in south america, with a continuous growth rate of over 80% over the last 10 years. moreover, it is a country that has demonstrated a relatively stable democracy, linked to the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. as an important partner in latin america with whom balanced political dialogue will be established on a regular basis, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and peruvian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the main objective of this report is to strike a balanced balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry and job creation. this is intended to establish stricter standards for most engines already existing under the current directive 97/68/ec, as well as to extend to new engine power ranges, types of combustion and fuels used, as well as new categories of machinery, with the aim of closing legislative gaps. in addition to the environmental and health benefits for citizens, it contributes to the creation of a harmonised internal market for industry and machinery users, which will facilitate trade and competitiveness and strengthen the eu's external trade with other developed industrial economies. with this legislation, we provide industry with certainty for long-term planning and a stable regulatory environment. i therefore support this report.
‒ despite some recent improvements, air pollution in europe remains a concern. in september 2014, the european commission presented a revised proposal for the approval of emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, which covers a wide range of machinery with internal combustion engines that contribute to air pollution. this is one of the sectors which needs to be regulated, even though it is responsible for a minority of emissions. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made some changes to the initial version. among other things, the list of exemptions has been extended. the implementation dates for engines used in river vessels have been modified. we agree that member states should be able to prohibit the use of combustion engines for reasons of health and safety at work, particularly in hotspots where the air quality is poor. the rapporteur was keen to include in the amendments her concerns about possible distortion in the internal market. while agreeing with the aim of simplifying administrative procedures and improving the general conditions of application, we do not follow the rapporteur's views on the internal market. concerns should be focused on the protection of the environment and the health of the population. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) covers a wide range of combustion engines installed in machines, ranging from small portable equipment, construction machinery and generator sets to automobiles, locomotives and inland waterway vessels. these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu. this proposal aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines installed in nrmm. it also seeks to address aspects related to competitiveness and compliance. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ environmental sustainability is also key to achieving the climate goals outlined at the paris summit in december 2015, as well as to reducing the european union's dependence on imported energy. this proposal for a regulation takes account of environmental objectives set by the union in setting european union emission limits and type-approval procedures for engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. the proposal for a regulation introduces a number of measures which, if properly implemented, can make a decisive contribution to reducing the environmental impact of these equipment, in particular by promoting the use of more efficient equipment and reducing the use of fossil fuels, channelling funding routes to innovative projects that reduce tailpipe emissions, promoting the use of portable emission measurement systems, controlling the type of imported engines entering the eu market, among other measures. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this proposal, as i consider it essential that the eu should define common rules on the type-approval emission limits of engines for non-road mobile machinery.
‒ this report focuses on a proposal covering a wide range of combustion engines that can be installed on a wide range of machinery, from small handheld equipment to locomotives and boats. in the european union, this range of machinery is responsible for about 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions. i think it is important to note that the proposal in question contains a very satisfactory set of measures to reduce these emissions, such as the extension of the transitional period granted to companies for the replacement of their machinery, the simplification of the implementation phases of projects to introduce new emission levels, the possibility of replacing old engines with new engines with better environmental performance, a new monitoring system which will ensure that the emissions tested in laboratories are in line with those recorded in the real world and, last but not least, the relevant role given to the european parliament in this matter. i believe that the union is thus working to restore european citizens' confidence in the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on companies in the field of the environment. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ non-road mobile machinery emits, according to commission data, 15% of all nox and 5% of all particulate pollutants in the eu. in order to address this problem, the commission should indeed set stricter standards for most engines already existing under the current directive 97/68/ec, as well as extending it to new engine power ranges, types of combustion and fuels used, in order to close loopholes in the legislation. in addition to the obvious and desirable environmental and health effects for our citizens, this has the advantage of creating a harmonized internal market for industry and machine users and of facilitating trade and competitiveness, ultimately making environmental legislation a commercial opportunity as well. we must try to find a balance between health and environmental concerns, as proposed by the commission, the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry and job creation.
‒ this report is on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type approval requirements for internal combustion engines of non-road mobile machinery. several urban areas in europe do not fully comply with air quality standards and, to some extent, this quality is compromised by the contribution of harmful emissions from the nrmm (non-road mobile machinery) sector, in the form of gases or particles, to the atmosphere, with serious harm to public health. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal to establish stricter standards for most existing engines and to extend them to new engine power ranges, types of combustion and fuels used, and new categories of machinery. for the sake of air quality, the environment and the health of citizens, i voted in favour of this report, which will also bring benefits in terms of harmonising the internal market, facilitating trade and enhancing the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry in the european union.
‒ air pollution in europe remains a concern despite improvements. this is one of the sectors which needs to be regulated, even though it is responsible for a minority of emissions. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made some changes to the initial version. among other things, the list of exemptions has been extended. the implementation dates for engines used in river vessels have been modified. we agree that member states should be able to prohibit the use of combustion engines for reasons of health and safety at work, particularly in hotspots where the air quality is poor. the rapporteur was keen to include in the amendments her concerns about possible distortion in the internal market. while agreeing with the aim of simplifying administrative procedures and improving the general conditions of application, we do not follow the rapporteur's considerations on the internal market. concerns should be focused on the protection of the environment and the health of the population. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gardini report because i agree with the substantive requirements presented with regard to emission limits and approval procedures for engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). nrmms have a significant, very negative impact on air pollution, accounting for about 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter in the calculation of total eu emissions. while the standards governing road vehicle emissions have become stricter, the same has not been the case in the nrmms. a new legislative framework of equivalent measures is therefore indispensable to achieve the air quality objectives the eu has set itself. as a full member of the emis committee of inquiry, i have advocated transparency in the approval process. i therefore welcome the amendments tabled in this connection, in particular the obligation for manufacturers to make publicly available the co2 emissions determined during the type-approval process.
‒ the response to the refugee crisis facing europe needs to be addressed at several levels: on the one hand, the european union must endeavour to contribute to the political stabilisation and social and economic development of the countries of origin; the european union must also implement the relocation agreement and create the conditions for the integration of the thousands of people fleeing war, terror and death. as regards social and employment integration, it is important that the european union and its member states allow refugees access to social protection systems (e.g. housing, health, education, social and employment protection policies) which ensure the conditions for learning the language and culture of their new country and which accompany the processes of social integration in the community. it is also important that awareness-raising activities be promoted among the host communities in order to prevent and condemn any kind of discrimination, xenophobia and racism. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that all these concerns and proposals are reflected in it.
‒ the process of receiving a refugee can be characterised by three stages: receipt of the application, granting of refugee status and finally integration. despite the temporary nature of refugee status, it can extend over a long period of time and even become a more permanent link, which increases the importance of good integration. given the state of conflict in our neighbourhood - and its likely prolongation in time - and the number of refugees and asylum seekers arriving on our territory, the integration component is of even greater importance in the european context. it should be stressed, however, that this is primarily a matter for the member states and that the union can only provide support. the resolution sets out a series of measures to this end. the focus is on the reorientation and reinforcement of funding to member states, the revision of the 'reception conditions' directive or the expedited operation of the relocation mechanism. it also lists a number of good practices, such as the speedy processing of applications for international protection - without neglecting the individual nature of each case - and access to education, particularly in the field of language. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this is a human crisis on a global scale, but more specifically, it is also a political crisis for which the european union was unprepared and which therefore requires urgent and decisive action by policy-makers, as well as long-term measures that respond to the needs of society and the labour market. all humanitarian migrants, as asylum seekers and refugees, leave their countries abruptly and are therefore the most vulnerable group of all migrants, often suffering from serious health problems and psychosocial disturbances and post-traumatic stress or showing some form of disability. secondly, what makes the issue of social inclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market complex is the current macroeconomic situation in the european union. finally, what makes the adoption of effective social inclusion and integration measures more problematic is linked to their often unpopular nature in the public eye. i therefore voted in favour of the outlines of the report.
‒ the report reflects the need for the inclusion of refugees in the member states, which necessarily involves integration into the labour market. we have tabled amendments to the report focusing on improving working conditions and social protection, rejecting the 'qualifications' criterion as an exclusionary factor, rejecting the existing legislative and institutional frameworks (dublin regulation, blue card directive, eu-turkey agreement), and advocating the extension of support and integration strategies not only to refugees and asylum seekers but also to migrants. unfortunately, these proposals were not accepted. the report thus has some limitations, such as being uncritical of the criteria with which the eu proposes the 'distribution' of refugees (it calls for a review of the dublin regulation, but does not address the reasonableness of this 'distribution'); it calls for a distinction between refugees and migrants, does not mention those responsible for conflicts in the countries of origin, the inhumane conditions in detention camps or the cruelty of repatriation. nevertheless, the overall document contains guidelines which, if implemented, would have positive consequences, particularly in terms of promoting the social inclusion of refugees.
‒ managing the refugee crisis is probably one of the main challenges facing the european union and its society today, given its scale, its pace and the complexity of its social, political and economic implications. this is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis on a global scale, but more specifically it is also a political crisis for which the european union was not prepared and which therefore requires urgent and decisive action by policy-makers, as well as long-term measures that respond to the needs of society and the labour market. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the high number of refugees is a real test of the union's ability to respond to emergency scenarios. in this context, the response to the refugee crisis must be framed in a coherent and coordinated manner by the union and its member states in a spirit of genuine solidarity. in this sense, the strategy for responding to the refugee crisis must cover not only support for arrivals, in particular through food distribution, support for rescuing shipwrecked vessels, support for the provision of health care, among others, but also in terms of integrating migrants into the host communities. the fight against social exclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market is a challenge for which the union must develop appropriate and timely response tools, otherwise it will contribute to the increasingly prominent movements of social segregation, such as xenophobic and anti-immigration movements. i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i consider it crucial that the european union has a common and coherent strategy for the refugee crisis.
‒ the report reflects the need for the inclusion of refugees in the member states to be linked to integration into the labour market. it presents limitations in the necessary but non-existent criticism of the relocation mechanisms and the dublin regulation, the distinction between refugees and migrants, or the non-responsibility of the eu for conflicts in the countries of origin, the inhumane conditions of the concentration camps, or the criminal return policy. we do, however, follow some of the concerns and proposals in the report, of which we highlight: - increasing synergies between available financial instruments and the proposal to allocate 25% of the european social fund budget to support refugees;- protecting vulnerable groups such as children and women, including from sexual exploitation and violence;- protecting refugees at work by countering undeclared work practices and forms of serious exploitation or discrimination at work;- effectively guaranteeing access to housing, health, education, social security and labour market services;- the key role of free public education, language teaching, culture, intercultural and interreligious dialogue, non-formal and informal education, lifelong learning and youth and sport policies in promoting integration and inclusion. we voted yes.
‒ the current refugee crisis is a global humanitarian crisis, but it is also a political crisis, which calls for urgent and effective action. this report aims at the integration of refugees into the societies, labour market and education systems of their respective member states. i consider it extremely important that the principle of equal treatment be upheld in this area. member states should ensure that refugees have access to public services, as well as to integration courses, language learning modules and other measures in the field of education and training. in my view, the report provides a satisfactory answer in this respect, without prejudice to the fair distribution of responsibility as provided for in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i believe that the basis for successful management of the migration crisis is social inclusion and integration which respects equal treatment and equal opportunities. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ it is our duty to intensify efforts to find quick, effective and equitable ways of creating the conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and refugees into our society. this is only possible if the external and internal policies of the union and its member states are synergistic, complementary, fully implemented in a timely manner and based on solidarity, equitable sharing of responsibilities and respect for international law and human rights. a holistic approach to migration requires that eu external policies demonstrate their ability to tackle the root causes of migration, such as conflict, poverty, lack of freedoms, inequalities and extreme environmental conditions. on the other hand, internal policies on employment, education, social protection and health must also be open, harmonious and sufficiently flexible to turn the challenges posed by migratory pressures into a resource for the economic, social and cultural development of our societies. equal treatment and equal opportunities should always be the guiding principles of social inclusion and integration policies. refugee integration is a challenge, but it can also be an opportunity.
‒ managing the refugee crisis is one of the main challenges facing the european union (eu) today, given its scale and the complexity of its social, political and economic implications. this is a humanitarian crisis on a global scale, but also a political crisis, and it requires urgent, firm and permanent measures which also respond to the needs of society and the labour market in the countries, regions and communities of integration. the new european agenda on migration was adopted with the aim of addressing the difficulties resulting from this extraordinary influx of people and creating a european relocation/resettlement regime. it is therefore necessary to intensify the efforts already made, either through the mechanisms already adopted in this regard or by making additional and effective efforts capable of creating the necessary conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and refugees. this report describes the complexity and nature of this situation, and stresses the urgency of finding a solution based on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities, which is necessary to deal with this common problem, which also requires a common response. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with most of the measures proposed by the rapporteur.
‒ the unprecedented phenomenon of the refugee crisis that is sweeping across europe's borders is one of the greatest challenges of our time. the eu has sought to respond to this humanitarian crisis through enhanced intervention in key areas - economic, political and social - as a way of ensuring the proper integration of refugees into the labour market, in order to promote social cohesion and their full integration into european societies. a comprehensive european strategy in this area requires respect for european fundamental rights, providing adequate reception and decent living conditions, and avoiding the creation of fragmented communities. investments are needed in education, including access to language courses, and access to social protection. in addition, migration can provide opportunities for europe's economic growth and development and rejuvenation. the resources of the european social fund need to be increased as a means of facilitating the full integration of refugees into european societies. i voted in favour because this legislation guarantees the implementation of policies for the social inclusion of refugees and their integration into the labour market, thus restoring the dignity of those seeking refuge and safety on the european continent.
‒ this report reflects the need for the inclusion of refugees in the member states, which necessarily involves integration into the labour market. the cfp has tabled eight amendments, focusing on improving working conditions and social protection, rejecting the 'qualifications' criterion as an exclusive factor, rejecting the refugee legislative frameworks (the dublin regulation, the blue card directive, the eu-turkey agreement) and extending support and integration strategies not only to refugees and asylum seekers but also to migrants. these proposals were not accepted by the commission. the report presents some limitations in this respect, such as being uncritical of the criteria with which the eu proposes the 'distribution' of refugees (calls for a review of the dublin regulation but does not address the reasonableness of this 'distribution'), calling for a distinction between refugees and migrants, failing to mention those responsible for conflicts in countries of origin, the inhumane conditions of the concentration camps or the cruelty of repatriation. however, the main body of the document contains information which, if implemented, would have consequences for increasing the inclusion of these people.
‒ i voted in favour of the benifei report because i believe that a common approach is needed to the integration and social inclusion of refugees. i believe that the integration of refugees should be seen as an opportunity for our society, because integrating them into the labour market is not only important for restoring their dignity and self-esteem, but it will also benefit the common good, as it allows them to gain economic independence and become active members of our society. i therefore stress the need for the eu to base its immediate response to the situation on solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility as set out in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as well as a comprehensive approach that takes into account the need to improve safe and legal migration channels and full respect for european fundamental values and rights.
in writing. ‒ in november 2010, the european parliament adopted a set of recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility in two reports focusing on the respect for these dimensions in trade policy and the conclusion of trade agreements. i acknowledge that important steps have been taken in recent years, such as the adoption of the generalised system of preferences (gsp and gsp+) or the consideration of sustainable development objectives and the defence of human rights in the commission's 'trade for all' strategy. i believe that trade policy is an instrument for promoting the values of the european union and must therefore safeguard respect for social and environmental standards and combat human rights violations such as slavery or forced labour. i support the concern to include these issues in the union's multilateral and bilateral international relations, in particular in the negotiations on trade partnerships. i stress the need to fully implement the 2010 recommendations, adapting them to the reality of 2016, in an effort that the commission has been leading. i agree with the value of corporate social responsibility in this context. i therefore support the report.
‒ trade plays an important role in promoting business opportunities, creating prosperity and increasing employment, as well as in boosting economic development, social progress, living standards, quality of life and the long-term improvement of human rights standards. member states should therefore promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where they carry out their economic activity and create value, encourage mandatory country-by-country reporting by the private sector and promote good governance, including in relation to taxation and tax collection. i also agree with greater transparency and accountability of grassroots organisations in the formulation of international trade rules and national trade policies, while ensuring consistency with respect for workers' rights and human rights, including women's rights.
‒ we appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur in drawing up this report, particularly when she stresses the absolute need to respect and value labour rights and conditions, as well as the role of the international labour organisation. but beyond the recommendations that may emanate from this plenary session - some positive, some negative and some very negative - it is important not to lose sight of the essential. the social responsibility in question is irrevocably at odds with the interests of the large economic and financial groups, with the promotion of the relocation of companies and of labour and social dumping, with attacks on collective bargaining and trade unions, with the exploitation of resources and workers in third countries, and with the deepening of social and gender discrimination. it will not be eu trade policy that will reverse this reality. on the contrary, it will tend to make it worse. the need to repeal the treaty of lisbon and to reverse its provisions on trade policy is clearly demonstrated. it should be up to each country to define its trade policies and agreements in a sovereign manner and in accordance with its interests and needs.
‒ in the framework of the 'trade for all' strategy, sustainable development is identified as one of the main objectives to be pursued by the european union, as stated in the treaties establishing it. in the logic of an integrated policy approach, eu trade policies should serve not only as a driver for economic development but also for social progress, a good standard of living and respect for human rights. in 2010, the european parliament had the opportunity to address a set of recommendations to the commission on social standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, which should be taken into account in the framework of trade agreements concluded between the union and third countries. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to ensure that the recommendations made by the european parliament are implemented in practice in order to promote sustainable and integrated development.
in writing. ‒ in november 2010, the european parliament adopted the following reports: human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements. the reports point out that by establishing certain regulatory requirements in trade agreements it is possible to promote european values and to raise awareness in third countries of the importance of good social practice. the same can be said of the production of goods without respect for human values, such as slavery, by prohibiting their importation. the report shows that the commission is doing a good job in implementing the 2010 standards. this is without prejudice to the recognition that much remains to be done in this area, especially as many developing countries will be reluctant to include social and environmental responsibility measures. this effort must continue. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the eu's trade strategy should be seen as an instrument for promoting democratic values in third countries. the commission and the member states should mainstream a gender mainstreaming approach in all their policies, including trade policy, ensure coordination between development aid and trade policy, promote respect for international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and environmental protection, and promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where they carry out their economic activity.
‒ this own-initiative report notes that while some of the european parliament's 2010 recommendations on social, environmental, human rights and corporate social responsibility (csr) legislation have been implemented, others have not. this report thus draws attention to the implementation of some of the main recommendations which should be taken into account in the future. the european union (eu) trade strategy should be a tool for the promotion of democratic values in third countries as well as for the promotion of human, labour and environmental rights through the strengthening of trade preference agreements or programmes. in addition, the european commission (ec) should take a leading role in the reform of the governance model of the world trade organisation (wto), with a particular focus on the objectives of enhanced cooperation, which should be more effective and allow for regular dialogue between the relevant un and wto agencies. the eu should also strengthen its leading role in the review of multilateral trade policy - at global level - and in mechanisms for the inclusion of social, environmental and human resource dimensions. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures listed.
‒ this debate reflects the deep contradictions of a neoliberal system based on free trade and a purely commercial logic that subjugates everyone and everything in the name of profit. as reality shows, it will not be through vague and non-binding rules that we will improve the lot of those who are exploited inside and outside the european union. what about the human rights clause in the eu-israel association agreement? has this agreement ever been called into question, despite the repeated violations of human rights suffered daily by the palestinian population in their territory? as long as free trade and the private interests of big business prevail, the well-meaning words of this house will not impose corporate social responsibility. we therefore advocate a new model of cooperation which is mutually beneficial for both parties and which respects the sovereignty of the national states.
‒ i voted in favour of the forenza report on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, as i believe that the eu has the capacity to make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy as proposed in this report. i stress that the european commission must act with the understanding that trade and investment agreements have implications for human rights and sustainable development and must therefore be designed to support social and environmental progress, ensuring that european standards are not compromised, safeguarding human rights and ensuring respect for social and environmental standards. i would highlight the efforts of the european socialist group to increase the level of ambition and to introduce legally binding rules to hold companies and governments to account to civil society.
‒ promoting jobs, growth and investment is the european union's priority challenge. the eu must therefore develop an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy that takes account of the eu's new challenges. i agree with the need for a strategy that increases the level of transparency, involvement and accountability of all stakeholders, that addresses people's concerns about transparency and participation, well-being and jobs, business expectations for a global and interconnected economy, the fight against poverty and the need to ensure a more equitable distribution of income from trade, to address new issues such as digital trade. a forward-looking trade policy should pay more attention to the specific needs of micro-enterprises and smes and ensure that they can fully benefit from trade and investment agreements. at the same time, an effective enforcement mechanism should be included for labour and environmental rights, similar to what we apply to human rights verification.
in writing. ‒ the eu is now the richest economy in the world. however, its economic importance is expected to decline: by 2050, the eu28 will account for only 15% of world gdp, compared with 23.7% in 2013. the centre of wealth generation is shifting eastwards to the asia-pacific region and demographic developments will also have negative effects on the eu's position in the world trade landscape. it is therefore essential for the european union to develop an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy. in its 'trade for all' strategy, the commission sets a clear objective of rapidly increasing trade liberalisation and further integrating the eu into global value chains, coupled with the modernisation of its trade defence system.
‒ the european commission has proposed a trade and investment strategy for the eu entitled 'trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy'. this report looks at this strategy, which has the stated aim of accelerating deregulation and liberalisation of trade and further integrating the eu into global value chains. this is a presumption that separates the waters and dictates the fate of this report with more or less flourished regulatory (namely green and social), of the two one: either you are for free trade or you are for a regulated trade. the rapporteur is opting for free trade, endorsing her dogmas, and that is her original sin. in this context, calls for an urgently upgraded eu trade defence system are of little use, especially in view of china's strong demand for market economy status. this is a tainted debate for other reasons as well. what about the human rights clause in the eu-israel association agreement? has this agreement ever been called into question, despite the repeated violations of human rights suffered daily by the palestinian people in their own territory?
‒ in 2009, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european union's competence in trade policy was extended, with the competence to negotiate trade agreements with third countries being transferred to it under article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european union is now the world's largest trading bloc, accounting for about one third of world trade. however, its economic importance is estimated to decline in the coming decades. in the context of the new strategy, the importance of a coherent approach between the union's trade objectives and the other aspects of its external policy should be stressed, as trade agreements should be understood as an instrument conducive to strengthening sustainable development, the promotion of human rights, labour and social rights and environmental sustainability. i am therefore voting in favour of this report, as i believe that the european union must focus on a trade and investment strategy which gives the union the tools it needs to face the new challenges of the future.
in writing. ‒ the european union (eu) currently accounts for some 23.7% of global gdp and is the world's richest economy. however, by 2050, its share of world gdp is expected to decline to just 15%. the decline may be due to the shift of world wealth eastwards and the negative effects of demographic change. a strategy for efficient trade and investment is therefore imperative, as these are important drivers of growth and job creation. the report warns of the need for a new approach in the areas of responsible supply chain management, the global digital market, trade in digital goods and services, ethical and fair trade, and the social costs of trade liberalisation. the need for a transparent trade policy and a greater voice for citizens is invoked, in the particular case of the ttip negotiations and in the attention given to smes and their specific needs. i voted in favour of this proposal because i consider it essential to develop an effective trade and investment strategy, also at european level.
in writing. ‒ mr president, given the increased public attention to trade agreements and the fact that more citizens are concerned about how they are negotiated, a greater level of transparency, involvement and accountability of all stakeholders is needed. it is also essential to strengthen parliamentary control and the commission and council should promote transparency in all future negotiations.
‒ this report, which i voted for, reflects the need for a new trade and investment strategy that is innovative, effective and forward-looking. the european commission adopted a new trade and investment strategy in 2015, following a resolution adopted by the european parliament on the subject. the eu is facing a number of trade challenges, and although it is currently the world's richest economy, it is projected to decline by 2050 as wealth shifts to the asia-pacific region. it is therefore important that this strategy is people-centred and people-driven, bringing a higher level of transparency and accountability to trade negotiations - both current and future - that ensure sustainable development and promote respect for human rights, labour, social and sustainability standards worldwide. i support the need to modernise the european trade defence system, taking into account the objective of increasing trade liberalisation and the eu's integration into global value chains, as well as enhancing cooperation and coherence between the union's trade objectives and other aspects of its external policy.
‒ this debate reflects the deep contradictions of a neoliberal system based on free trade and a purely commercial logic that subjugates everyone and everything in the name of profit. as reality shows, it will not be through vague and non-binding rules that we will improve the lot of those who are exploited inside and outside the european union. what about the human rights clause in the eu-israel association agreement? has this agreement ever been called into question, despite the repeated violations of human rights suffered daily by the palestinian population in their territory? as long as free trade and the private interests of big business prevail, the well-meaning words of this house will not impose corporate social responsibility. we therefore advocate a new model of cooperation which is mutually beneficial for both parties and which respects the sovereignty of the national states.
‒ i voted in favour of the beghin report because i believe that europe needs to promote trade by giving a boost to job creation and economic growth, but that this openness must be accompanied by a legal framework that ensures widespread access to the benefits of trade. trade is not an end in itself, but a means to achieve prosperity and equality, promote business opportunities, sustainable economic development, social progress and cultural understanding, increase employment and raise living standards without increasing public spending. i therefore advocate a trade policy which avoids protectionism and promotes the reduction of unnecessary non-tariff barriers to trade, guaranteeing access to new markets, especially for smes.
‒ my vote in favour of this report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the context of the eu's external relations was due to the good document produced by my fellow rapporteur, especially when she asks the commission to assess the need for a possible review of the mandate of the future european public prosecutor's office, so that the fight against trafficking in human beings is integrated into its competences. i would like to stress the attention that is being called for in relation to trafficking in human beings in the eu's political dialogue with third countries as well as through its cooperation programmes. it also considered it essential that strategies to prevent trafficking in human beings address the factors that facilitate it, as well as the causes and circumstances of the phenomenon, and that they follow an integrated approach, bringing together different national and international actors, mandates and perspectives.
‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of human rights violation and one of the most profitable activities of organised crime, affecting mostly women for the exploitation of sexual services but not only. i support the lochbihler report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the context of the eu's external relations, which condemns this activity, which cannot be tolerated in the light of european societal values and standards and which unfortunately also takes place within our internal borders. i regret the lack of adequate legislation to combat this scourge and the lack of cooperation between countries, with the number of known victims still high, with no access to adequate protection and support, and with limited or no access to justice. special attention should be paid to illegal migration flows that increase the risk of trafficking due to their vulnerability and irregular situation, in particular unaccompanied minors such as the 10,000 children who have disappeared in europe according to europol. it is urgent that the eu continue its efforts to combat this phenomenon in all its forms (sex, slavery, forced begging, organ trafficking) and in particular in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ around 70% of detected victims are women and girls and make up 79% of detected victims of sexual exploitation. men account for 83% of the detected victims of forced labour. the annual illegal profit generated by forced labour, including through money laundering, is estimated at around $150 billion, with an estimated 90 percent of victims exploited in the private economy and two-thirds of the profits derived from commercial sexual exploitation, making it the most lucrative form of exploitation. i therefore voted in favour of the report which calls for the eu and the member states to take a human rights-based and victim-centred approach and to put victims and vulnerable populations at the centre of all efforts to combat and prevent trafficking in human beings and to protect their victims.
‒ the report provides a comprehensive overview of global trends in human trafficking, the economics of human trafficking, the rights of victims and the issue of compensation, and advocates for cooperation in combating trafficking at regional and international level. finally, it addresses the policy that the eu should pursue on trafficking in human beings in the context of its external relations. unfortunately, the report fails to address some of the root causes of this phenomenon - as evidenced by the rejection of the amendments we have proposed on war, exploitation and inequalities in the distribution of wealth. on the other hand, it is based on the - erroneous - assumption that the phenomenon does not exist within the eu itself, but is confined to other continents. the role and action of nato in triggering such phenomena, for example the war in libya - which has reinforced criminal activities, including human trafficking networks - is ignored. a complacent attitude is adopted towards multinational companies which make use of slave or forced labour resulting from human trafficking. the report contains positive aspects but does not really look at the causes of the phenomenon. for this fundamental reason, it fails in its guidelines for combat.
‒ trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of fundamental rights and an offence against the dignity of the human person, and this criminal activity is one of the most lucrative in the framework of international organised crime. this scourge is of a global magnitude and so the response must also be seen from a global perspective. in this context, efforts should be made to improve the strategy to combat trafficking in human beings, including through cooperation with third countries to combat trafficking in human beings from recruitment to the point of arrival; to better distinguish the concept of trafficking in human beings from the concept of smuggling of migrants; to adopt and implement measures to combat corruption and the flow of profits from the commercial exploitation of this activity into the financial system; and to better implement existing legislation on the protection of victims of organised crime, especially the most vulnerable groups, such as women and children. i am therefore voting in favour of this report because i believe that a coherent approach to eu policies is needed, both at the level of internal and external policy.
‒ this is a report that addresses the issue of combating trafficking in human beings in the context of the eu's external relations. the title immediately denounces the thematic contextualisation on the basis of an assumption we do not recognise: the eu's foreign policy. the report provides an exhaustive overview of global trends in human trafficking, the economics of human trafficking, the rights of victims, including the issue of compensation for victims, the advocacy of cooperation in combating human trafficking at regional and international level, and the eu's policy on human trafficking in the context of external relations. while there are some positive aspects, we cannot ignore the deep hypocrisy which is evident throughout the lengthy report. on the one hand, it follows a line of whitewashing of eu migration policies. it also legitimises the structural policies at the root of this humanitarian crisis and sanctions the return policy, the externalisation of borders and the role of europol and frontex. at the same time, it makes the states less responsible for their role of welcoming and providing solidarity. these unacceptable considerations justify the vote against.
‒ trafficking in human beings (ths), which is part of organised crime and constitutes one of the most serious forms of human rights violation, turns men and women into commodities, violating the dignity, integrity and rights of victims. the different ends of trafficking in human beings - namely, sexual exploitation, organ trafficking and forced labour - are a profitable and growing industry of human suffering, affecting all societies and economies in a profound and permanent way. the current migration crisis increases the risk of trafficking due to the vulnerable and irregular situation of many migrants, and it is therefore incumbent on the european union to promote programmes to support the inclusion of migrants and refugees, with the participation of third countries and also of cultural mediators, which are useful to raise the level of awareness of communities about trafficking and to make them more resilient to the penetration of organised crime. ths is a modern form of slavery and a serious crime that cannot be tolerated in societies firmly founded on respect for human rights and must therefore be severely punished. in view of the above, i vote in favour.
‒ human trafficking is a modern form of slavery and a serious crime that constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations, something that cannot be tolerated in societies based on respect for human rights. human trafficking must be understood in a holistic way, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, child soldiers and baby trafficking. as it is a transnational crime of a global nature, any measures to combat it must take into account the root causes and global trends. hence the importance of a coherent and urgent approach to the internal and external dimensions of eu policies to combat it.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on trafficking in human beings as a new form of slavery - an extremely serious crime that is highly offensive to human dignity, which has increased significantly in recent years, notably through international criminal networks. the rapporteur clarifies the difference between human trafficking and migrant smuggling, adding that each concept requires legal responses and appropriate practices. given the different forms of exploitation, some may be linked to corruption, and effective measures are urgently needed, starting with the training of competent public officials who are properly prepared to respond to such requests. regional, european and international cooperation against trafficking in human beings is of paramount importance and therefore requires greater coordination and systematic exchange of information to investigate and combat transnational trafficking in human beings, through measures such as enhanced financial and technical assistance, alongside capacity building at governmental and law enforcement level. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the general content of the proposals in this report.
‒ human trafficking is a form of modern slavery that ravages the lives of many people. trafficking involves various forms of extreme exploitation such as child prostitution, child soldiers, unpaid forced labour and the trade in human organs, and is a highly profitable business for criminal organisations. it is unacceptable that human beings should be treated as commodities, that their dignity, integrity and rights should be constantly violated, and that they should inevitably be relegated to situations of isolation, contempt and misery. the eu has made a notable contribution to the fight against trafficking in human beings. however, the needs of victims, including the provision of assistance, therapy and compensation, must still be taken into account. i voted in favour because it encourages the eu to step up its action in protecting and assisting victims, in strengthening the police against traffickers and in improving cooperation with developing countries. the fight against trafficking in human beings must be a shared responsibility. but unfortunately, many countries in the world still do not have legislation to criminalize and combat trafficking in human beings.
‒ trafficking in human beings (thr), which is part of organised crime, is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations, as it converts human beings into commodities, flagrantly and persistently violates the dignity, integrity and rights of victims, and affects entire families and communities, deliberately exploiting situations of vulnerability such as poverty or isolation. however, this tsh cannot be dissociated from the neoliberal and warmongering policies that spread misery across several continents and that encourage this kind of practice. if we lived in a world of peace, social progress, genuine solidarity and respect for the differences of each people, the figures would certainly be different.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. madam president, this year's review of the multiannual financial framework will be the moment of truth, because then, when the decision is taken on the use of financial resources, we will know whether the concerns that many are now voicing are to be taken seriously. we certainly need more flexibility in the management of funds to respond to unforeseen situations, such as the refugee crisis and security challenges. but we also need to ensure that this flexibility is not at the expense of cohesion policy. we must also increase the financial ceilings themselves and speed up the debate on the new system of the union's own resources. finally, and this is a subject of great interest to the afco committee, we must strengthen the democratic support for financial decisions by aligning the duration of the financial frameworks with the mandates of parliament and the commission and by strengthening the control mechanisms of this parliament. this is what we must do for a union capable of facing the crises ahead.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to acknowledge and commend the excellent work done by the two rapporteurs. in fact, this multiannual financial framework does not have the flexibility to respond to the current challenges of emergency situations, as is proven by the trust funds outside the european union budget. the revision is urgent, the priorities are clear, employment, particularly youth employment, promotion of growth, strengthening of the competitiveness of the union's economy, internal solidarity, external solidarity and internal security as well. there are simple principles we must agree on. we must have a credible multiannual financial framework. this means that the financial means must be in line with our ambitions, our aims and the objectives we set ourselves. it is also clear that the commitments made must be respected. we need more flexibility, we need simplicity and if we look, for example, at the implementation of the current multiannual financial framework, we see a huge backlog. this is unacceptable and is the result of bureaucracies, both national and european, which must be eliminated. we have the support of the european commission to move towards a real revision of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy, investment and also to meet the expectations of the population, the expectations of the citizens of the european union. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. the multiannual financial framework, if we look at its implementation, is not being implemented as it should be. if we look, for example, at the payments for 2017, there's a 6.2 percent reduction. what does that mean? that there are delays in the multiannual financial framework. what else does this mean? that with the resources we have, we can do better. this is not just up to the institutions, it is up to national governments. but i agree that 1% of gdp in the budget for the european union is not enough and the european commission should come up with proposals, add other funds like the juncker plan, to move forward on all the challenges you have mentioned. on brexit, just one point: 39.6 billion euros is what the uk also has from 2014... (the speaker ends his answer off the microphone.)
madam president, regardless of the more or less specific aspects which the report rightly points out, the payment deficit, the instruments and the flexibility margins, the plain truth is that this budget is totally incompatible with the proclaimed objectives of social and territorial cohesion set out in the treaties. and this incompatibility arises from two orders of reason: firstly, the amounts are far below what is needed for an effective redistributive policy which would allow the disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions. it is also significant that this multiannual budget has been reduced for the first time in the history of european integration. secondly, this budget is short because a large part of the resources, which are already scarce, are not used to promote cohesion. a significant part of the budget is now being used to finance the repressive and security policies of the european union, thus taking away funds that should be directed towards the objectives of cohesion or support for farmers who are victims of the european union's external policies. we want more money, but we demand that it be put to use in a distribution policy that reduces disparities and reinforces cohesion.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr kofod and mr theurer, the special committee on taxation, its chairman, mr lamassoure, and all those involved in the preparation of the report on their very high quality of work. to achieve this result, the european commission and parliament - i think i can say this - have worked very closely and very positively. i myself have participated on several occasions in the debates of the taxe committee. my colleagues, who have been summoned, commissioners vestager and hill, also appeared before her and our services cooperated closely and, i believe, effectively. we are in a political context which we cannot ignore, with turbulence which invites us to reflect together on how we respond to the most crucial political, social and economic issues facing the peoples of europe. this reflection is just beginning and it deserves to be deepened, it must be open and take account of the demands and needs of all the citizens of the european union in their diversity. a specific issue that comes up again and again in public debate is, of course, the need for greater social justice alongside economic growth, and it is inseparable from the issue of transparency. i do not claim that this is an easy question to solve, but it is a question that we must answer first and we must answer it quickly. it did not win the british vote. it has been a concern of ours for a long time and must remain the guiding principle of our action. in a context where the legitimacy of the european union is being questioned by some, i am convinced that transparency and tax justice are essential to re-establish a pillar of democracy, which is tax consent. that is why the commission has identified fairness, particularly in the area of taxation, as one of its main political priorities for its mandate and, with the full support of this parliament, our work is progressing, i think i can say, considerably towards that objective. let me review some of the main developments in our tax equity strategy in the months since taxe 2 was created; our interaction has already been extremely positive. some of these actions are, in fact, - as the rapporteurs have already said - direct responses to the recommendations of this parliament, which have been directly operational. firstly - and this is still an important point in the report we are discussing today - we have made a great deal of progress towards what i call the transparency revolution. following a commission proposal in january, member states agreed to automatically exchange tax information on the activities of multinationals. this agreement is based on greater openness and better cooperation between tax authorities, to which we already contributed last year with the new legislation on tax resets. the commission also recognised that tax transparency should extend beyond administrations. i repeat here - for those who have not heard - that from the first day i took office i have been in favour of country-by-country public reporting - i say public. in april, we proposed country-by-country disclosure requirements for large multinationals. your report welcomes these proposals very much. mr lamberts, he would like to go further. this proposal is now in the hands of the council and parliament. i am convinced that you will make an ambitious response. and we presented our latest initiative today to combat unfair tax practices with a proposal that aims to give tax administrations access to key beneficial ownership information and other data that allows for enhanced surveillance. these are the concerns you have raised, as have the g20 and the g7. this will enable tax authorities to identify and act against those who hide their income and assets in offshore funds, as was the case with the panama papers. you can see that we have an answer to the problems that are raised right away. we also announced that we would work to expand the cross-border access of tax authorities to beneficial ownership information, and to work towards increased control and accountability of a profession, namely tax advisers, some of whom - but not all - allow or encourage tax fraud. again, these are proposals which i made in this house a long time ago. we have therefore other plans to come to ensure greater transparency, in line with the recommendations of your report, which i would say is entirely in line with our priorities - and mine. secondly - and on this point too we agree - we have put in place new concrete measures to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits, a fundamental measure in tax justice. there has been a whole debate in the council on minimum taxation, but it is not about that, it is about effective taxation. in january, the commission proposed an ambitious directive on tax evasion to put an end to certain loopholes, certain schemes used by certain companies to avoid paying taxes. i am glad that less than six months later the council has reached political agreement on the bulk of the commission's proposal for a directive. these new rules, once implemented, will deal a blow, a hard blow, to aggressive tax planning in europe and will allow us to take a step further towards fair taxation in the european union. i am not going to pretend here that this directive is sufficient or that it is perfect. i am well aware that the taxe committee and this parliament expect more, and i also know that the commission's proposal was, as is often the case, a little more ambitious than what had been decided by the member states in the end, but again i think we have a good compromise, which the commission has agreed to. i will spare no effort to achieve the results you desire. for example, as requested in your report, we will be strengthening the measures to combat tax evasion during the year, with a proposal to combat hybrid arrangements with third countries. we will, of course, as you ask in your report, relaunch the ccctb, the draft common consolidated corporate tax base, before the end of the year, to make it compulsory for large multinationals. this will create a more favourable and fairer tax environment for all businesses in the european union. this is obviously a fundamental structural measure. i note that the adoption of the tax measures, in so far as it concerns the fight against tax evasion, has nevertheless had a tremendous accelerating effect. it took several years, and more, to get directives on taxation adopted in the council, taking into account the rule of unanimity. with the strong pressure of events, it now takes - you will notice - a few months. i hope that this acceleration will also be seen when measures are proposed which have a structural, long-term effect, as is the case with cfsp. we have failed in the past on this point. we shall now take up the matter in a slightly different way, but i want to tell you how much interest, and even importance, i attach to this proposal. thirdly, we have continued our work to extend good tax governance globally. the commission's objectives are the same as those of parliament on this last point too, or very close to it. our initiatives to combat tax evasion include a new external strategy to encourage good governance in tax matters beyond the single market and to tackle countries that do not play by the rules. a central element of this strategy is to establish a common eu list of non-cooperative third countries - let us say in french, but it is understandable in the other languages - i.e. a pan-european blacklist of tax havens, and also to provide for countermeasures, an idea which, i know, has the backing of the taxe committee. we have already started this process of drawing up lists with the member states and, unlike in the past, a recent past i had proposed a first list, the limits of which were obvious to me, but which had the merit of being in existence a year ago, however things have changed a lot i note that the member states fully support this project and i want to tell you that the first list of the european union should be ready in 2017. this will be a major step forward and will be built in conjunction with the oecd. i think this measure will have a major deterrent effect on third countries who think they are in a position to profit from the erosion of the tax bases of other countries. of course, the need for tax efficiency and fairness does not stop at the borders of the european union. that is why, as part of our external strategy, we place - as your report does - a very strong emphasis on supporting developing countries in their fight against tax evasion and in their integration into the network of international good tax governance. it's not just the g20 countries, it's the whole world. we have committed, in the addis ababa tax initiative, to double our support to low-income countries to help them improve their tax collection. we will honour this commitment and go further, providing full political support to these countries within the oecd and other international organisations. my services have also engaged in discussions with member states and stakeholders on how to prevent the negative impact of community and national tax policies on developing countries. i know that this is a concern shared by all of you. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i have outlined to you today the main lines of the work we are doing to ensure fairer and more efficient taxation in the european union, in line with the expectations of our fellow citizens and with certain recommendations - the main points of your report. i have been able to cover all these recommendations because this report is very comprehensive, but i am of course still prepared to discuss them with you. the strong political pressure exerted by parliament as a whole, through the taxe 1, taxe 2 committees and, i am not forgetting, econ, because there was also very high-quality joint work, has contributed greatly to the progress achieved. our programme, my programme, is continuing and it is addressing many of the other areas that you have mentioned, ranging from improving transfer pricing to strengthening good governance clauses in the case of our international agreements. we have a clear public, political mandate to encourage member states to implement the measures decided upon, through a rapid and ambitious agreement on these initiatives. i think this is very much reflected in the public outrage that has not been dispelled by the publication of the panama papers and other scandals covered by the media, which in this case are allies. there is a real demand from citizens across the european union to strengthen social justice, to improve transparency and to achieve full transparency in economic and fiscal policy. i am therefore happy to continue this work, happy to do so in close partnership with the european parliament to achieve a fairer taxation in europe as our fellow citizens expect and, to that extent, i am also very happy to welcome this report as an important step in our common fight.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. the two taxe committees 1 and 2 have confirmed this breadth and confirmed that this is a widespread practice throughout europe and in all capitalist economies. the report points out a number of highly relevant aspects, but it does not go to the heart of the problem, because all these arrangements which provide genuine tax breaks do not happen by chance, they happen as a result of a long process of financial deregulation, which has been accentuated since the 1980s and which has been led by governments and parties present in this house today. let the dutch, the united kingdom or the luxembourg governments say so. we do not therefore fully support this report because it condemns the capitalist system which promotes the free movement of capital and financial liberalization and encourages tax evasion. we therefore believe that an effective fight against tax evasion and fraud requires public control of the financial system and restrictions on the movement of capital. relying solely on the regulatory path shows that we have learned nothing from the past. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i can only answer for the position of my party, the portuguese communist party, which has been fighting in portugal against tax havens and in particular against the tax haven which also exists in portugal, like in most european countries, and which is located on the island of madeira. we therefore fight tax evasion, both inside and outside portugal, in a consistent and coherent way.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteurs kofod and theurer on this report from the taxe 2 committee, which shows that the european parliament has acted in the face of the luxleaks scandal and is still at the forefront of the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. we want justice and transparency to reverse the disastrous consensus of financial deregulation and fiscal competition of the last twenty years, which has accentuated divergences between member states and unbearable economic and social distortions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. we cannot accept an internal market which cannot ensure fair competition without a minimum of tax harmonization and which cannot continue to tolerate patent boxes and other state aid, which is given immorally to multinationals in tax avoidance schemes. the commission and the council cannot delay in putting into practice our recommendations in this report, from public country-by-country reports, to the consolidated common tax base, to whistleblower protection and to sanctions for any facilitators of tax dumping schemes, including confiscation of proceeds. we must stop attacking democracy and the european project with policies and practices that accentuate injustice and inequality and therefore trigger understandable outrage among our citizens. as commissioner moscovici has stressed, and i welcome his interaction with the taxe 2 committee, this is an essential issue for democracy in our member states and in europe.
madam president, the luxleaks scandal was not exactly a new development, it simply made more evident what we all knew: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but it is a tax dumping on the incomes of the big companies, of course, because the citizens, these, not only do not benefit at all, but are still called upon to compensate for the loss of revenue caused by fraud and evasion of those who could escape. some progress has been made and there are many positive aspects to this report. however, it still has serious limitations on european responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the usual policy of a europe which not only does not combat but encourages tax evasion, tying the hands of member states who want to collect taxes that are owed to them and allowing others to steal revenue that does not belong to them. finally, madam president, the european commission is directly responsible for the subtraction of legitimate tax revenue, with negative consequences for the public accounts and the deficits of the member states. and why is the european commission not held to account? because it is the european commission.
madam president, the mandate for a european border and coast guard agency has fortunately evolved a great deal from the original version, which proves the usefulness of this parliament being heard and scrutinizing the mandate and functioning of the new agency, especially in the vulnerability test. including search and rescue operations in the mandate is crucial to fulfilling european legal and moral responsibilities. but controlling borders and organizing return operations is, by definition, reacting at the final stage of the problem. the priority should be to open up safe and legal pathways for migrants and refugees to avoid falling into the hands of criminals, preventing routes that are increasingly dangerous but more lucrative for smugglers. and invest in the articulation of frontex or the new agency, with a strengthened easo and europol, as well as changing the discourse, no longer following the xenophobic far-right, telling the truth to our citizens: if refugees and migrants need europe, europe needs them too.
madam president, the european coastguard and frontex are nothing but instruments for furthering the federalist vision of this project of european capitalist integration and its security and militarist component. the expression of a european union closed in on itself, based on the concept of a strong europe and consolidated in the externalization of maritime borders to third countries, in the restrictions on the free movement of persons, in the discrimination and expulsion of refugees, another face of the xenophobic and racist agenda that characterizes your criminal migration policy and the response to the serious humanitarian refugee crisis we are witnessing today, a crisis whose causes the european union has direct and indirect responsibilities with your policies of interference and aggression in the middle east and north africa, articulated with nato and the united states, favouring authoritarian regimes, promoting the political destabilisation of countries that are against the interests of imperialism by fuelling conflict and war.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed an important impact of the synergies between the different forms of european investment in national economies. this is also what makes investment in science policy a form of cohesion policy for european regions. i would like to ask the commissioner how the commission can envisage penalising member states through access to european funds. we are not going to see the cohesion policy itself being subverted and science, as we now know, left in the hands of ecofin? how is it possible that after the very harsh austerity imposed by the troika for four years in portugal, there is even thought of penalizing the country because it failed to meet 0.2% of the budgetary pact in 2015? how are we going to explain to the portuguese that there is now a left government being punished for not fitting in with the neoliberal vision that has marked the european agenda? words have weight, commissioner, and your colleagues should know that. portugal is already being penalized. the markets heard it. so is ecofin.
madam president, commissioner, the commission is here today to talk about the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. the same commission which has for months been planning to impose unacceptable and illegitimate sanctions on portugal, sanctions which consist precisely in the freezing of structural funds and fines. portugal, the country that was a net contributor to the 7th research framework programme, i.e. the predecessor of horizon 2020, i.e. the country that has been funding the science of the rich for years, including some who are now calling for sanctions. let me remind you once and for all that the portuguese people are masters of their own destiny and do not live with their hands outstretched to you. what portugal receives from the european union in structural funds is largely exceeded by capital outflows from portugal to the european union in the form of interest, profits and dividends. it is not only the pressure and blackmail of the european commission that is illegitimate and intolerable, but also the real extortion to which they continue to subject the portuguese people. it's time to say enough, enough of submission.
madam president, the question of control of the territorial waters of exclusive economic zones is at the heart of the sovereignty of each state. the lisbon treaty, by establishing the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the european union, constituted a negative development in usurping this sphere of sovereignty. the european fisheries control agency is set up in this context. some have long wanted to go further and pursue the objective of creating a european union coastguard, a supranational structure for monitoring and intervening in waters under the sovereignty and jurisdiction of each member state. but the political conditions for this had not been met until now. the wave of migration to europe was the pretext they found. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the fisheries control agency, now integrated with two other agencies, frontex and the maritime safety agency, sees its already negative role substantially broadened and deepened.
madam president, commissioner, the bet on a more and better europe is here. in addition to the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency we will soon have the european border and coast guard agency. it is necessary to ensure that these three agencies establish a high degree of cooperation, avoiding duplication or inefficiencies. the synergy resulting from the joint action will enable them to fulfil their missions even more fully and to be even more useful as demanding coordinators of member states' action. i agree with the increase in the budget of these agencies so that they can acquire equipment, carry out sea missions and hire appropriate staff. i am sure that european citizens will be happy to support any initiative that reduces the possibility of more children dying in the mediterranean while their parents seek a soil free of war.
mr president, mr prime minister, and i would naturally like to welcome the slovak presidency, mr commissioner, i would like to say that in my view there are three major challenges for the slovak presidency: the first of these, and the most difficult, is undoubtedly the question of brexit. i think it is essential to follow three or four principles. the first is to allow the united kingdom to organise its position for a while, the second is to have the best possible agreement, of course, but with respect for the rules - if you want access to the single market you must have freedom of movement - and the third is not to get involved in the constitutional question of the united kingdom, that is to say the problem of scotland and northern ireland. it is the united kingdom that has to solve it, not the european union, and i think slovakia has a lot of lessons to learn about this because of the separation process between the czech republic and slovakia, which went perfectly because nobody interfered. the second very important point is the point of strengthening the euro zone and here i think it was essential to give a boost to the banking union which is an essential point, namely the third pillar which is the pillar of the deposit guarantee system, which i would like to see further strengthened here. the last point, which is fundamental for me, is the question of refugees and migration, and i must say that i am not very satisfied with the slovak presidency's programme, because i think that only with a system of real distribution of the effort to receive refugees in europe will we be able to have a humanitarian response in the light of the values that are european values.
mr president, in the coming months we will be working on the revision of the dublin regulation and on the strengthening of easo, among other major challenges, such as those arising from brexit. but your positions on these matters, president fico, do not bode well for european leadership. are you a european? you have said, for example, that islam has no place in slovakia, that migrants change the identity of our country. we will never bring a single muslim into slovakia, they pose a serious threat to our security. and what about the attacks on refugees on the borders with hungary and austria on your government? and to have joined with others in the visegrad group to violate the schengen agreement by closing borders to refugees and suffocating greece? i am sorry, mr fico, but you do not seem to me to be a europeanist, much less a social democrat. without questioning the quality and commitment of slovak officials, i fear that your presidency of the european union will only aggravate the problems we are facing. you have six months to prove me wrong.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, for several years now parliament has engaged with the commission in a constructive, structured dialogue, as provided for in the framework agreements. from the commission side, your input at an early stage in the preparation for the commission work programme is very important and welcome. today i am here to listen to you about the priorities for next year, as you see them, and the commission will pay particular attention to the resolution you intend to adopt tomorrow. i welcome the fact that the council too is now anchored in this process thanks to the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. it did not get much attention outside of the institutions but i think it is a great innovative approach to make sure that all three institutions are equally locked into our priorities. our dialogue is all the more important in light of the current challenges, which can only be met together. we need to agree on a focused, prioritised agenda which can deliver on the big things where europeans expect our union to produce concrete results. the work of the juncker commission is guided by the 10 priorities of the political guidelines. this was the basis on which parliament approved the college of commissioners and this will not change. more than ever, we need to get our heads down and work hard to focus on key challenges ahead for our economies and societies – areas where the eu can make a real and positive difference to people’s lives and help them regain a sense of control over their futures and destinies. jobs, growth and investment must therefore remain at the top of our agenda. the european fund for strategic investments is producing results and should be extended beyond 2018. the commission has accelerated work under the european agenda on migration for a swift, coordinated response to the refugee crisis. we presented a package on legal migration last month; our dublin reform is already before you; and we will come forward with the remaining proposals to strengthen our common european asylum system next week. i count on you to make swift progress on these difficult but important issues. having invested considerable efforts towards the paris climate deal, we now need to begin delivery across the full range of our climate and energy policies. our proposal for ratifying the paris agreement has been tabled and we will make the proposal on the effort sharing decision for the non-ets sector before the summer break. by the end of the year, we will make proposals on renewables and energy efficiency. so there is significant work to do in this area, and rapid delivery should be a priority for all of us. the digital single market package, presented on 25 may 2016, with proposals on geo-blocking, cross—border parcel delivery and customer protection, has the potential to deliver significant benefits for businesses and consumers. if we can ensure that these proposals are adopted in 2017, alongside the proposal on portability and coinciding with the end of roaming charges, we will have made a major step towards delivering results for our citizens. we are also following up on the five presidents’ report on european monetary union, completing the banking union, building a capital markets union and reinforcing multilateral surveillance. reinforcing the social dimension of our policies is a key aim of this commission and i think you have seen that clearly reflected in this year’s european semester. in terms of initiatives, we recently presented a new skills agenda on which we hope discussions can advance rapidly. the public consultation on a european pillar of social rights will close in december and the follow—up initiatives will come next year. one thing is clear: in meeting the challenges we face, we need to coordinate our action with the european institutions and with the member states. we need to make the best use of the means at our disposal. the mid—term review of the multiannual financial framework is a key moment. the college will hold a first discussion before the summer break and present its review in the course of the autumn. by the end of this year we will have a lot on the table. the commission work programme for 2017 will take this into account. we will also identify key proposals which are currently before parliament and the council to start a discussion with you on setting common priorities in a joint declaration, as is provided for in the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. as in the two previous years, the work programme will focus on a limited number of new initiatives which the commission makes a political commitment to deliver between october 2016 and december 2017. making sure that the existing body of law is fit for purpose is as important as tabling new initiatives, and i see what i would almost call a cultural change in the three institutions, to place a focus on that aspect of our work as well. the refit (regulatory fitness and performance) platform is already working on opinions on a number of key stakeholders’ suggestions to feed into the discussions on the commission work programme. the platform has worked very hard and has come up with a number of important suggestions and opinions that can be very useful to all of us. we are also updating the refit scoreboard to make it easier to use. our dialogue on the work programme is an important and concrete aspect of the cooperation between our institutions. the commission is committed to working closely with you and the council in the preparatory process. i reiterate that today i am here to listen to you. what you say here, honourable members, and then your resolution, will help us shape the letter of intent which will be sent to you on 14 september in parallel with the president’s state of the union address. after that, our dialogue will continue in the conference of committee chairs, in the conference of presidents and here in plenary when we present the work programme to you on 25 october. let me finish with one remark. if we do this work together as two institutions and also incorporate the council in these discussions, then nobody on the council side will be able to say, when they go home, ‘that’s brussels: that is not us’. we will get them into the process and then they will have to defend their own responsibility in that process when they go home. brussels is all of us, including national governments. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european union, as we know, is dealing with overlapping crises – refugees, security, terrorism, unemployment, divergences – but the most recent one, which is raising a fundamental question, is the brexit issue. citizens are concerned about the way to get control of their lives. there is a big choice about that. either we go back to national borders or we are able to build, together, better european solutions. for this we need to have a strong and clear road map. this ep resolution is parliament’s first contribution to defining that road map. we think that the road map should be clear on better european solutions – and, firstly, on how to address citizens’ concerns. we are calling for a strong european pillar of social rights, ensuring that all citizens can count on good working conditions, social protection and social services, while also getting access to better skills for better jobs. this is particularly crucial for young people in europe. we know, too, that europe needs to deliver on a new eu global strategy. we welcome the proposal from federica mogherini and the commission in this direction because we think that europe needs to renew, first of all, the way it works with neighbouring countries to stabilise them and support their development. this is also the best way to manage migration flows, while ensuring that we can host refugees in a manner commensurate with european standards. moreover, we need to ensure, once and for all, that we reverse the current trend of economic and social divergences undermining the very heart of europe. this is happening in the eu as a whole and we need to address it with a strong policy for economic and social cohesion. it is happening too inside the eurozone, and for that we need to complete economic and monetary union with banking union and fiscal capacity. so these are our requests. we are glad to work with the commission and the council and we believe the community method is the right way to deliver these european solutions.
we have discussed this programme of work in the face of the enormous political magnitude of the sovereign decision of the british people to leave the european union. a sovereign expression that results from and highlights the profound political, economic and social crisis of the european capitalist integration project and the deep contradictions that characterize it, which result from its class nature. this expression confirms the growing distance between the peoples of europe and the european union and its policies of exploiting workers and peoples for the benefit of european big capital. they are now launching leaks that will deepen the federalist character of the european union and the concentration of power within it, in direct confrontation with the interests and aspirations of the peoples. the european union is not reformable, and those who oppose your policies of austerity, impoverishment and exploitation, even in a moderate way, are met with blackmail, threats and sanctions. this is your matrix. the reversibility of the treaties and the repeal of the budgetary treaty and the lisbon treaty are called for. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency for the purpose of the single currency. the renegotiation of sovereign debts, many of which are illegitimate, is called for. the banking union must be abolished, banking must be subject to public control and the sovereign instruments for regulating the economy of the member states must be restored. it will be the struggle of the peoples to break with your policies and build a europe of cooperation, peace and solidarity between sovereign and equal countries.
in writing. the european commission has failed in its first two years of office to pull the eu out of the stagnation caused by the economic and financial crisis and the lack of internal solidarity. the debate and adoption by the european parliament of a resolution identifying strategic priorities for the european commission's work programme in 2017 is an important contribution to a new impetus in the european project. the strategic priorities set are appropriate to the challenges the eu faces - improving the living conditions of europeans, strengthening the economy, responding to the opportunities associated with the energy transition and the digital revolution, integrating refugees, completing economic and monetary union, developing an ambitious foreign policy and tackling tax evasion. these strategic priorities have to move from the paper to the concrete life of european citizens. the commission must take a constructive and not a punitive attitude. the euro area's shared budget has to be clearly strengthened to close to 10% of european gdp to support a functioning monetary area. transparency and democratic control must be strengthened. without these assumptions, the commission will hardly achieve in 2017 what it did not achieve in the previous years of its mandate.
‒ the objective of the protocol is to lay down the technical and financial rules which will enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu. however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be assessed taking into account all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership. the rule of law, human rights and democracy remain fundamental principles on which the eu's relations with third countries must be based.
in writing. ‒ this framework agreement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan is in line with other agreements underpinning the eu's external policy, the defence of its geostrategic and geopolitical interests, the control of raw materials and natural resources, the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade. interest in azerbaijan is inseparable from the strategy of political and economic encirclement of russia, the situation in ukraine and interest in the country's vast energy resources - in the shadow of which major investments have been made by european corporations in the sector (as is the case with bp). ensuring access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, is vital for the eu, which, faced with a serious crisis, is stepping up its policy of interference and using all political, economic, diplomatic and other mechanisms to weaken sovereign states, subordinate them to the interests of the eu's great powers and their capitalist monopolies, hungry for new markets and greater exploitation of man and nature to generate more profits, which they need to counter the crisis of profitability they are in and the inexorable tendency of the profit rate to fall. we voted against it.
‒ the objective of this protocol is to lay down the technical and financial rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific modalities and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each union programme shall be determined in due course by mutual agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in 2006, the commission launched the challenge of gradually opening up certain european union programmes to third countries as part of its neighbourhood policy. since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been in negotiations to establish improved contractual relations in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, of which azerbaijan is a member. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu and, despite the impasse in negotiations, in october 2012 azerbaijan expressed interest in participating in union programmes. in this context, this protocol is a further step towards the consolidation of eu-azerbaijan relations, which defines the general terms and principles of its participation, including the signing of a memorandum of understanding on participation in each programme, specifying in detail the conditions for participation. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the union should make efforts to promote cooperation with the countries party to the neighbourhood policy, in particular with azerbaijan, in order to contribute positively to their economic and social development and to the promotion of fundamental rights and democratic values.
‒ the european union's foreign policy strategy has been to conclude a number of protocols and framework agreements which develop in the short to medium term as free trade agreements. these are negotiations with various countries/regions in view of the geostrategic and geopolitical interests of the european union, along with the control of raw materials and natural resources of the countries with which it is bound, to the detriment of the peoples. this relationship with azerbaijan is of considerable importance because it forms part of the political and economic encirclement of russia. it also reflects the eu's strategy to reduce energy dependence on that country. azerbaijan has huge energy resources which the big european multinationals want to access, to the detriment of its own energy sovereignty. we voted against it.
‒ since 2006, the european union has included in its european neighbourhood policy the progressive opening up of certain community programmes to neighbouring countries. these programmes aim to improve bilateral cooperation between the countries concerned, while promoting the fundamental principles on which the union is based, such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the first partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and azerbaijan entered into force on 1 july 1999. in 2012, the political decision-makers of that country expressed interest in participating in the above-mentioned programmes. in 2014, agreements on visa facilitation and readmission were reached between the contracting parties. azerbaijan is a relevant partner of the union in the energy field and the importance of its relations is not limited to energy. i therefore believe that azerbaijan's participation in community programmes is important in promoting the above-mentioned fundamental values. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes to neighbouring countries is undoubtedly one of the main elements of the european neighbourhood policy. while parliament expressed concern at the increasing difficulties faced by civil society actors and organisations in recent months, this agreement is essential for strengthening respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy in azerbaijan.
in writing. - this proposal for a recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states and the republic of azerbaijan, establishing the technical and financial rules enabling that country to participate in certain european programmes, in accordance with rules to be determined ex post facto and agreed jointly by the commission and the authorities of azerbaijan. this agreement is part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) which aims to facilitate access to certain union programmes for the eastern and southern border countries, with a view to deepening and improving bilateral cooperation relations with our neighbours. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu, although this framework agreement goes far beyond energy and covers other areas of cooperation within the eastern enp. nevertheless, there is still some concern about certain situations relating to the consolidation of the rule of law, human rights and democracy in azerbaijan, which deserve attention, given that respect for and compliance with these requirements must be a sine qua non for the smooth development of these relations.
in writing. ‒ this framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan is in line with the recent agreements we discussed in previous plenary sessions. the european union's foreign policy strategy has been to conclude a number of protocols and framework agreements which develop in the short to medium term as free trade agreements. these are negotiations with various countries/regions in view of the geostrategic and geopolitical interests of the european union. they are also interested in controlling the raw materials and natural resources of certain countries. the interest in azerbaijan is embedded in the political and economic encirclement of russia, as well as in the situation in ukraine and in the interest in the immense energy resources that the country has.
in writing. ‒ the objective of amending budget no 2/2016 is to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus for the financial year 2015 of eur 1 349 million, the surplus being a positive result of eur 980 million in revenue, a non-execution of expenditure of eur 187 million and exchange differences amounting to eur 182 million. the adoption of this amending budget will reduce part of the gni contributions of the member states to the 2016 union budget by eur 1,349 million. i share the view that member states should use the opportunity provided by this reimbursement to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and increase their contributions to the trust fund for africa and the madad trust fund for the syrian crisis. i therefore support the report by my colleague, mr josé manuel fernandes.
in writing. ‒ in september last year, member states committed to contribute as much as the eu to the two trust funds for the refugee crisis: the trust fund for africa and the madad trust fund for the syrian crisis. the eu contributed €1.8 billion to the former and over €500 million to the latter. by spring, member states' contributions had been reduced to €82 million for the africa fund and €69 million for the syrian crisis response trust fund. an additional €2.1 billion from the member states will therefore be needed to match the eu contribution. if member states use the 2015 surplus of €1.3 billion to strengthen the trust funds, they would be sending a signal that we are united and committed to finding a solution to a crisis that affects us all.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 2/2016 is devoted exclusively to the budgeting of the 2015 surplus, amounting to eur 1349 million. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. it is good that this surplus is kept in the budget. but unfortunately, in practice it will no longer be a surplus, as the adoption of this amending budget will reduce the share of member states' contributions to the 2016 eu budget, based on their gni, by eur 1349 million. in other words, the additional effect that this surplus could have is effectively cancelled out. and they mostly save the same ones. the rapporteur without any practical effect argues that, instead of adjusting the contribution based on gni, the eu budget should be able to reuse surpluses from under-utilisation of appropriations or fines imposed on companies in competition matters, in order to meet their financing needs, especially in the context of insufficient payment appropriations, and hopes that this issue will be resolved in the context of the review of the mff.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget (dab) no 2/2016 is intended to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 budgetary year. as provided for in article 18 (3) of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union, this op is intended solely for that purpose and must be submitted within 15 days of the submission of the provisional accounts at the end of march 2016. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in the context of the evaluation of the 2015 budgetary year of the european union, a budget surplus of eur 1349 million was found. the correction to the union budget is intended solely to record the budget surplus for 2015, thereby reducing the member states' contribution, in accordance with article 18 of the regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the general budget of the union. in this sense, instead of adjusting the contribution based on gni, the union budget should be able to reuse surpluses from under-utilisation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings for breaches of union competition law in order to meet their financing needs. i am therefore voting in favour of this report, as i believe that the union should be given a greater budgetary capacity to ensure that its policies are better implemented, for example by making more investment available for the implementation of projects.
in writing. draft amending budget no 2/2016 concerns the surplus for the financial year 2015 and is intended to be entered in the 2016 budget in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation. the surplus in question is eur 1349 million, consisting of community revenue of eur 980 million and a shortfall of eur 187 million plus the positive result of exchange rate differences of eur 182 million. the adoption of amending budget no 2/2016 will reduce the gni contributions of the member states to the 2016 budget by a part equal to the surplus. i agree with the report when it says that surpluses should be reused in competition matters to meet their financing needs, and i hope that this will be resolved in the context of the review of the mff. i therefore vote in favour of this report, particularly because i consider it of the utmost importance that the member states honour the commitments they have made in responding to the current refugee crisis and in contributing to the specific union trust funds.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will reduce the share of member states' gni contributions to the 2016 union budget by eur 1349 million. the report once again urges member states to use the opportunity provided by this reimbursement to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to match the union's contribution to the two specific union trust funds. it is further noted that, until spring 2016, member states have contributed only eur 82 million to the trust fund for africa and eur 69 million to the madad trust fund in response to the syrian crisis, while the union's contributions amount to eur 1,8 billion and over eur 500 million respectively.
‒ it networks and systems and services play a vital role in society, their reliability and security being essential for the freedom and general security of eu citizens and the well-being of the internal market. i support the schwab report which endorses the council's position at first reading, thus enabling the prevention and response to attacks and disruptions affecting europe's telecommunications systems and providing an effective response to the challenges through a comprehensive eu approach covering common minimum requirements for cybersecurity skills development, information exchange and coordination of actions, including through the establishment of a cooperation mechanism between member states. the processing of personal data is to be carried out in accordance with directives 95/46/ec and 2002/58/ec and in accordance with regulation (ec) no 45/2001, and is to be strictly limited to the minimum data necessary for that purpose. with this new legislation, all eu member states, major internet companies and infrastructure operators such as e-commerce platforms, social networks, transport, banking and healthcare have to ensure a secure and reliable digital environment across the eu.
‒ at least 80% of european companies have had at least one cybersecurity incident over the past year. these incidents know no borders and can cause serious damage to society and the economy. this directive therefore requires operators providing essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health and banking, and providers of digital services such as online marketplaces, to take a number of measures to resist cyber-attacks. each eu country will have to designate one or more national authorities responsible for this and adopt a national strategy for the security of network and information systems.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the european commission proposed a directive on network and information security as part of its cybersecurity strategy. the aim of the proposal was to set up a mechanism to create an insight into the breach of security of certain important infrastructures. the proposal called on member states to adopt a national strategy setting out the strategic objectives. member states should also designate/create a national authority to monitor the implementation of the directive and designate a national single point of contact to link member states to the network of it security incident response teams. this report is the outcome of that process. the outcome of the trilogue was weaker than the original proposal in that its scope was somewhat limited and fewer digital service providers were included in the annex and therefore in the european commission proposal.
‒ networks and information systems play a key role as a means of facilitating the crossborder movement of goods, services and people. due to this transnational dimension, a disruption in one member state may also affect another member state and the union as a whole. the flexibility and stability of networks and information systems are therefore essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market. this proposal for a directive recognises the need to harmonise rules on the one hand and to create effective cooperation mechanisms between member states on the other. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this proposal, as i consider it important to harmonise certain aspects of the security of network and information systems within the european union in order to prevent the contagion of possible 'attack' situations in several member states and to encourage a coordinated approach to these situations.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the ec proposed the directive on network and information security as part of its cybersecurity strategy. the aim of the proposal was to set up a mechanism to create an insight into the breach of security of certain important infrastructures. the proposal called on member states to adopt a national strategy setting out the strategic objectives. member states should also designate/create a national authority to monitor the implementation of the directive and designate a national single point of contact to link member states to the network of it security incident response teams. the outcome of the trilogue was weaker than the original proposal in that its scope was somewhat limited and fewer digital service providers were included in the annex and therefore in the ec proposal. that is why we abstained.
‒ networks, information systems and digital services (nis) play a key role in facilitating the movement of goods, services and people within the european union. however, the dependence of many sectors on such information technologies also carries the risk that security breaches in one member state may spread and create consequences in others, as well as in the union itself - so-called externalities. the proposal covers three areas of action: requiring member states to have a minimum level of national authorities responsible for nis, ensuring their cooperation and coordination with the european network and information security agency (enisa), and requiring economic, public and private actors in strategic sectors such as banking, transport, etc., to report nis incidents and to take measures to ensure nis security. therefore, a resilient and stable network of systems and information is essential to ensure security for both users and operators. having approved the first reading and having seen that the proposed measures provide greater certainty and security in matters of nis, i consider this report to be extremely consistent with these concerns and therefore vote in favour.
‒ it is imperative to improve the security of the internet and of the private computer networks and systems on which the functioning of our societies and economies is based. this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their level of preparedness and cooperation with each other and by requiring operators of critical infrastructures, such as energy, transport and the main providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.), as well as public administrations, to take appropriate measures to manage security risks and to report serious incidents to the competent national authorities.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation of the european parliament (ep) at second reading on the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the union. given the increasing importance of networks and information systems and the fragmentation of regulatory frameworks in the member states of the european union (eu), there was a need to introduce obligations ensuring the security of networked information in order to create a level playing field at european level by closing the existing legislative gaps. this proposal requires member states to ensure effective cooperation and coordination between them through an information network to enable the reporting of incidents in information and security systems, and to take appropriate measures immediately to ensure the subsequent viability of these systems. i agree with the importance of the creation of a cooperation group for strategic coordination between member states, with operational capacity and the ability to set up a security incident response team. penalties for non-compliance should also be provided for in the national law of each member state in order to ensure a harmonised approach and a level playing field across the eu with regard to european cybersecurity.
‒ the cybersecurity directive sets out new rules to increase the security of network and information systems in the eu. it was found that operators providing essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health and banking, and digital service providers such as search engines, should adopt several measures to resist cyber attacks. member states are responsible for designating the national authorities responsible for this matter and for adopting a national network security strategy. the global digital space has become an increasingly unpredictable and volatile space, putting society and the economy at risk, which is why this directive provides for the establishment of cybersecurity incident response teams across the eu. a 'cooperation group' is hereby set up to support and enhance the exchange of information between member states. i welcome the adoption of this directive because it is a useful tool in combating attacks in cyberspace and in monitoring and managing any crimes and incidents. it also requires a minimum level of security for network and information systems to improve cybersecurity in the eu.
‒ network and information security is increasingly important for our economy and society. it is also an important precondition for creating a reliable environment for trade in services worldwide. however, it systems may be affected by security-related incidents, such as human error, natural events, technical failures or malicious attacks. these incidents are becoming more serious, more frequent and more complex. the document now before us for second reading aims to ensure a high common level of network and information security.
‒ the resolution proposes to simplify the current system to an a to g scale in order to make it easier to compare energy consumption between different appliances. the aim is a new, more transparent scale and clear labels indicating the energy efficiency class by its absolute consumption in kwh over a given period. the aim is to help consumers make informed choices and reduce their electricity bills. the new system could save energy equivalent to the annual consumption of the baltic states (200 twh per year in 2030). the reduction in demand would lead to a reduction in co2 emissions and a decrease in dependence on suppliers such as russia.
in writing. the energy labelling directive was adopted in 2010 with the stated aim of encouraging consumers to buy more efficient products. the report stresses the need for a new approach to the problem of the market. the creation of a database of products, standards and testing procedures, as well as the consumer information campaign, is also needed. the rescaling relevant concern aims to combine the occupation of energy efficiency classes by the product models available on the market with the technological evolution of the product group, facilitating a correct reading of the information to be transmitted and avoiding a distribution of the models by classes that potentiates misreadings and misinterpretations. the rapporteur believes that the existence of a product database is a central element of this citizen-oriented information and communication system, as it will facilitate access to information, increase the capacity to monitor market developments in real time (and improve legislation accordingly) and enhance the efficiency of 'security mechanisms'. market surveillance, safeguards and conformity assessment are key elements of enforcement. in general, we follow the concerns and recommendations expressed by the rapporteur. we voted in favour.
‒ the european union has been working towards a true energy union, with an energy and climate policy geared to the new challenges of the 21st century. energy efficiency is essential to achieve the climate objectives set out at the paris summit in december 2015. in this context, the energy-efficiency labelling of equipment can contribute positively to achieving the union's 2030 energy efficiency targets. energy labelling allows consumers to make more informed choices about the most energy efficient products/equipment at the energy endpoint. although this has already been regulated by the european union, the transposition of directive 2010/30/eu has led to the adoption of different energy labelling scales and the adoption of this regulation is therefore intended to ensure a uniform application of energy labelling. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, as i consider it important that consumers have access to clear and accessible information on the energy efficiency of the equipment they purchase, regardless of the member state in which they do so.
‒ directive 2010/30/ec has made it possible to create an energy efficiency label, allowing citizens to have a better understanding of the environmental impact and life cycle of the products they purchase. however, consumer confidence in energy efficiency has been shaken after the so-called 'volkswagen scandal', and it is therefore important to increase the transparency and simplicity of the energy labelling framework. the amendments to the directive in areas such as rescheduling, the information and communication system and union surveillance constitute important developments in the legislation in this area. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ this legislative initiative concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the need to establish a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. we all know that the introduction of these labels has given citizens a more detailed knowledge of consumption, environmental impact and the life cycle of products. the analysis carried out showed that several aspects of the previous directive needed to be amended and a regulation was chosen as this is the legal instrument capable of avoiding different transpositions in different member states and also allowing greater transparency for consumers and authorities with regard to products related to the energy sector in the eu. i support, in general, the commission's proposals to replace the current energy labelling system and to introduce a mechanism for the re-scaling of energy efficiency classes, as well as the creation of a product database and the imposition of obligations on economic operators. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to combine the occupation of energy efficiency classes by the product models available on the market with the technological evolution of the product group. since the post-rescaling distribution of product models by energy efficiency classes a to g will have significant market implications, a flexible 'driving' approach is maintained, proposing three decreasing options of 'rescaling intensity': c-g (with two empty classes at the top), b-g (an empty class) and a-g (no empty classes). these staggering patterns will also be associated with the criteria mentioned above. the objective is to converge to a-g scales within a reasonable timeframe (5 years). information flows and planning tools are also emphasised. together, they should shape a knowledge-driven transition, including solutions adapted to newly labelled product groups and small-sized products. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the tamburrano report because i agree with the need to align the progress made in energy efficiency with a new type of labelling that allows consumers to make informed choices about the most energy-efficient products. i am in favour of environmentally and consumer-friendly energy labelling so that you can get accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of products wherever you are in the eu and thus make informed purchasing decisions at a good cost-effectiveness. i believe that coherent legislation on energy labelling also benefits the free movement of products and promotes the competitiveness of european companies while encouraging them to innovate in the european area.
‒ the european border and coast guard is one of the flagship measures in the context of the agenda on migration, which lists a number of measures to deal with the migration crisis. this is a good example of how institutions can cooperate and deliver results quickly. the legislative process was completed in record time and the council was ready to reach commitments with the european parliament. this new agency, which is completely reshaping the current frontex, also introduces a number of significant innovations. the agency's own capacity has been strengthened, with its own equipment and a rapid reaction reserve of 1 500 men. however, and despite the very positive step, i cannot help but stress that this is not the solution to all the problems of the so-called refugee crisis. only a holistic approach is capable of tackling the complexity of the problem. moreover, it cannot - for the future - serve to relieve member states of responsibility, who essentially remain the main actors in the management of the union's external borders.
‒ the creation of the european border and coast guard to control migration flows and enhance security involves a european agency and national border management authorities. they will remain responsible for the day-to-day management of the external borders, but will be able to call on a rapid reaction contingent of 1500 border guards, including 47 portuguese, and technical equipment in situations requiring urgent action. this rapid reaction pool shall be a standing corps, which may be deployed from each member state within five working days of the date on which the operational plan has been agreed between the executive director of the agency and the host member state.
‒ the vision of a 'fortress europe', the criminalising, selective and instrumental vision of immigration, embodied in schengen, is more alive today than ever. the much-touted area of free movement of people which, in fact, never was has led to this: eight schengen member states belgium, denmark, germany, hungary, austria, slovenia, sweden and norway have introduced internal border controls in response to the so-called refugee crisis. the walls of the outer borders rise even higher, with barbed wire at the top, duly guarded by guards and weapons. it is in this context that the creation of the european border and coast guard, which is the subject of this report, is being set up. in several areas, the report goes even further than the european commission's initial proposal. the rapporteur considers that 'it is essential that in future the agency has the necessary border guards and equipment at its disposal whenever it requests them and, in particular, that it can use them in a short time when necessary'. we are facing an unprecedented attack on national sovereignty in a field that goes to the heart of that sovereignty: the control of national territorial waters. the attack is part of a security and militaristic drift. obviously, we voted against it.
‒ the recent migration flows have posed a number of problems for member states, particularly in terms of security and border management. the creation of a coast and border guard is an attempt to respond to this problem by ensuring a strict and shared management of the external borders of the european union. the european border and coast guard brings together the european border and coast guard agency established from frontex and the member states' authorities responsible for border management, which are responsible for ensuring the day-to-day management of the external borders. the new european border and coast guard will be equipped with a rapidly deployable reserve of border guards and technical equipment, will have a monitoring and surveillance role, will have the right to intervene, both within the eu and in third countries, by mobilising european border and coast guard teams, the prerogative to launch joint surveillance operations, the competence to carry out analysis and prevention of terrorism, among other competencies. i am voting in favour of this because i consider effective control of the union's external borders to be essential to guarantee the security of citizens and free movement in the schengen area.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they are the expression of a european union closed in on itself, reinforcing the concept of 'fortress europe' and consolidating itself in the externalization of maritime borders to third countries, in restrictions on the free movement of persons, in the creation of genuine concentration camps, in the discrimination and expulsion of refugees. another aspect of the xenophobic and racist agenda that characterizes the criminal migration policy and the response to the serious humanitarian refugee crisis in the european union, and which has as a direct consequence the death of almost three thousand refugees in the mediterranean this year. a crisis for which the european union bears direct and indirect responsibility, with its policies of interference and aggression in the middle east and north africa, coordinated with nato and the united states, favouring authoritarian regimes, promoting the political destabilisation of countries that oppose the interests of imperialism, fuelling conflicts, promoting war. we could only vote against it.
‒ the schengen area, comprising 26 member states, is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of the european project. however, due to the current migration crisis, and in response to irregular migration movements, some of the countries have reintroduced border controls. this shows that the instruments and mechanisms developed for the smooth functioning of the schengen area are not sufficient. this report proposes the creation of a new concept of european border and coast guard (ebcg) whose objective is to ensure adequate control of the external borders of the common area as a precondition for the effective management of migratory flows, in order to ensure a high level of security within the common area. the report proposes the creation of a new agency, to replace frontex, which would include the national authorities of the member states responsible for the management of land and sea borders in the field of border control. since i believe that the measures in this report will promote solidarity between member states, strengthen integration in the field of border management and help to prevent crises at the external borders, i am voting in favour.
‒ the schengen area is considered one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration. however, the absence of internal border controls is currently facing unprecedented challenges, with too many schengen member states reintroducing internal border controls in response to migration movements. this situation shows that the instruments and mechanisms developed over time for the proper functioning of the schengen area are not sufficient, given the magnitude of the current migration crisis as well as the threats posed by terrorist activities. it therefore makes perfect sense to create a european border and coast guard (ebcg) to ensure adequate control of the external borders of the schengen area as a precondition for the effective, humanitarian and solidarity-based management of migration flows, in order to ensure a high level of security within the area, while preserving the free movement of persons within the union.
‒ the schengen area is one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration. however, the absence of internal border controls is currently creating significant challenges, which has led some member states to reintroduce such controls in response to irregular migration movements that may endanger internal security and public order. it is therefore clear that the instruments and mechanisms developed over time for the smooth functioning of the schengen area have proved insufficient, especially in response to the recent challenges posed by the magnitude of the migration crisis and the terrorist threat. this regulation contains a package of measures aimed at ensuring better management and protection of the european union (eu) borders, such as the creation of the european border and coast guard, which will not only ensure the integrated management of the external borders but also contribute to the fight against cross-border crime and to ensuring internal security. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the content of this regulation, which puts the emphasis on the effective management of migration flows, and i particularly agree with the more comprehensive approach to potential external threats, along with the return to an eu without controls in the schengen area.
‒ the regulation creating the new european border and coast guard comes at a time when the eu needs to step up internal and external security at its borders. the multiple challenges facing the eu, including those related to various hybrid threats, call for more coordinated and cooperative action in the area of security. the new agency will be composed of the current frontex with extended functions as well as the national authorities responsible for border management. it is expected to play a key role in organising and coordinating rapid border interventions and deploying european coast guard and border guard teams, based on the rapid intervention contingent, and to be composed of at least 1500 personnel. i voted in favour because i considered it urgent that the new agency should have its own permanent staff and equipment and be able to mobilise them at any time when border intervention is needed. finally, it should be noted that the role of the parliament is strengthened by its involvement in the selection process of the executive director of the agency. the agency will seek to provide a common response to the threats facing member states and to strengthen the eu's resilience in the fight against external threats.
‒ the european coast guard and frontex are nothing more than an expression of a self-enclosed european union, based on the concept of 'fortress europe' and consolidated by the externalisation of maritime borders to third countries, restrictions on the free movement of persons, discrimination and expulsion of refugees. the crisis has causes. the european union bears direct and indirect responsibility for its policies of interference and aggression in the middle east and north africa, coordinated with nato and the united states, favouring authoritarian regimes, promoting the political destabilisation of countries that oppose the interests of imperialism and fuelling conflict and war.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the pabriks report because i believe that a new european border and coast guard agency should be created, with the necessary financial, human and material resources to help member states to ensure more effective management of the eu's external borders. i would stress the shared responsibility nature of this new agency. to that end, it should respond to migratory challenges and potential future threats at the external borders and ensure a high level of internal security within the union in a spirit of solidarity. i would also like to highlight the efforts made by the european socialist group to extend the mandate of the european border and coast guard to include support for search and rescue operations.
‒ the european border and coast guard is one of the flagship measures in the context of the agenda on migration, which sets out a set of measures to tackle the migration crisis. this new agency, which is completely reshaping the current frontex, also introduces a number of significant innovations. the european maritime safety agency is one such innovation, as it will also make its operational resources available for a more integrated management of the union's external borders. however, and despite the very positive step, i cannot help but stress that this is not the solution to all the problems of the so-called refugee crisis. only a holistic approach is capable of tackling the complexity of the problem. moreover, it cannot in the future serve to relieve member states, who essentially remain the main actors in the management of the union's external borders, of responsibility.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health and safety of workers and the environment.
‒ this report is part of the 'coast guard package'. it aims to amend and extend the powers of the agencies for maritime security, control and management of operational cooperation at the external borders in terms of border control and coastguard. all eu and member state agencies and bodies which are in any way related to maritime issues should contribute to the objectives of frontex. the european maritime safety agency should assume responsibilities for:- provision of surveillance and communication services based on state-of-the-art technologies, including space and ground infrastructure (including drones) and sensors installed on any type of platform; - capacity building through the development of guidelines and recommendations, support for training and exchange of personnel with a view to improving the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions; - sharing information generated by the merger and analysing data available in ship reporting systems and other information systems hosted or accessible to the agencies, in accordance with their respective legal bases and without prejudice to the ownership rights of the member states over such data. the report and the draft regulation are based on a security logic, on the criminalization of immigration, and constitute an intolerable attack on national sovereignty.
in writing. this proposal to amend regulation no 1406/2002 establishing the european maritime safety agency is part of a strategy to promote cooperation in the field of coastal safety by enabling the development of new forms of cooperation between the agency and the european fisheries control agency and the european coast and border guard. cooperation between these three agencies aims to promote the provision of more efficient support services to national authorities, both in terms of response and costs. in this context, the european maritime safety agency will make an important contribution to improving the surveillance and control capacity of the union's external borders, in particular by sharing information, sharing technical means such as remotely piloted aircraft and developing guides to best practices in coastal safety, among others. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, as i consider it essential to ensure effective control of the union's external borders, in particular by promoting synergies between the various european agencies in this field, in order to promote the efficient use of existing resources.
‒ more than 300 civil and military authorities are involved in coast guard functions, including security, search and rescue, border control, customs control and policing. these are supported by union agencies, in particular frontex, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca). emsa was established to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety, protection of shipping and prevention and control of pollution caused by ships. the commission concluded that there is a need for better cooperation between national bodies and european agencies carrying out coast guard functions, especially in the areas of operational surveillance and data sharing. the aim of this proposal is to improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant union agencies in order to increase synergies between their services, with a view to greater efficiency in their action, as well as in terms of costs, and my vote could not but be in favour.
in writing. ‒ currently, more than 300 civil and military authorities from the member states carry out coast guard functions, including security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, police and environmental protection. the objective of this legislative proposal, which strengthens european cooperation on coast guard functions, is to improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase synergies between their respective services, enabling them to provide national authorities performing coast guard functions with more efficient, including cost-effective, multi-purpose services.
‒ i have approved this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency. this proposal is consistent with the objectives of european maritime transport policy and the european maritime safety agency, which was set up to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of safety, protection of maritime transport and prevention and control of pollution. the proposal adopted today is part of a package of measures by the commission to strengthen the protection of europe's external borders. in addition, the establishment of this agency aims to strengthen european cooperation in coast guard functions by improving cooperation and coordination between eu agencies competent in these matters, in order to increase synergies between their respective services and to provide member states' coast guard authorities with more efficient multi-purpose services.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is crucial that the necessary adaptations are made to the european maritime safety agency, which is based in lisbon, so that it can adequately support the performance of the future european border and coast guard. this triple step, which includes two other european parliament decisions (creation of the european border and coast guard and adaptations to the functioning of the community fisheries control agency), is fundamental to the full management of the european union's borders. in a period of uncertainty about the future, i regard this as a very positive step towards making the union more cohesive and solidary.
‒ this report is part of the 'coast guard package', which aims to amend and improve the competences of the agencies for maritime security, control and management of operational cooperation at the external fisheries borders in terms of border control and coast guard. this means that all eu and member state agencies and bodies which are in any way related to maritime issues should contribute to frontex's objectives. the report and the draft regulation assume a security logic and the cruel repatriation policies of the eu, not the objective powers of this agency, which is to look after the safety conditions at sea.
‒ the european border and coast guard is one of the flagship measures in the context of the agenda on migration, which sets out a set of measures to tackle the migration crisis. this new agency, which is completely reshaping the current frontex, also introduces a number of significant innovations. the community fisheries control agency is one such innovation, since it will also make its operational resources available for a more integrated management of the union's external borders. however, and despite the very positive step, i cannot help but stress that this is not the solution to all the problems of the so-called refugee crisis. only a holistic approach is capable of tackling the complexity of the problem. moreover, it cannot in the future serve to relieve member states, who essentially remain the main actors in the management of the union's external borders, of responsibility.
‒ the european fisheries control agency contributes to the control of fisheries operations but cannot currently act in the context of other maritime areas. the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen the eu's capacity to respond to maritime threats and risks, in particular by improving cooperation between european agencies, but also between all civil and military actors. the aim of this proposal is also to enable the three european agencies which deal in particular with maritime disasters to coordinate their operations at sea and to share information useful for their action.
‒ this report is part of the 'coast guard package'. it aims to amend and extend the powers of the agencies for maritime security, fisheries control and the management of operational cooperation at the external borders in terms of border control and coastguard. all eu and member state agencies and bodies which are in any way related to maritime issues should contribute to the objectives of frontex. in this context, the community fisheries control agency should be given responsibilities for:- the exchange of data from control and inspection activities using the copernicus security system;- increased control for the detection of criminal activities and trafficking routes;- supporting the management of the eu's external borders. the report and the draft regulation are based on a security logic, on the criminalization of immigration, and constitute an intolerable attack on national sovereignty. this amendment reinforces the tendency to usurp areas of sovereignty and competence that should be in the national sphere, which led us to oppose the creation of this agency - an inseparable part of the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which considered the management of living marine resources to be an exclusive competence of the eu.
‒ the european fisheries control agency was set up in 2005 with the aim of ensuring the proper and effective application of the rules established under the common fisheries policy, in particular through coordinated inspection actions at sea and on land, as well as training in terms of good practices, among others. the agency shall not seek to replace the member states or the commission in the exercise of their responsibilities or tasks; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to adopt a common fisheries policy. this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing the european fisheries control agency is part of a wider proposal to give the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency, as well as the european maritime safety agency, the competence to coordinate their operations at sea and to share information relevant to their activities. i am therefore voting in favour of this proposal, as i consider cooperation between the various agencies to be important, as it contributes to a more effective response to possible disaster situations and to a more efficient use of resources.
‒ due to the existence of numerous competent authorities in the coastguard, the cooperation system suffers from delays and shortcomings, including lack of information on the tasks of each entity, as well as lack of coordination of operations and planning. the proposal aims to enable the three european agencies - the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency - to coordinate their operations at sea and share information relevant to their action. they will support the national authorities and will be able to act jointly and effectively, the means of action being predominantly national, while the coordination of functions will be at european level. in my view, the proposal satisfactorily determines the competences of the european fisheries control agency, which are no longer limited to fishing operations but now cover information sharing, the provision of surveillance and communication services and the sharing of resource capacities. in the face of the challenges facing maritime authorities and in the face of the current migration crisis, this report strengthens the capacity of these bodies to respond, because i voted in favour.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a large number of functions in fields as diverse as security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and police. there are currently 316 such national authorities at eu level. these numerous authorities work together through 70 different structures. perhaps for this reason, the current cooperation system suffers from delays and shortcomings, including lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of other authorities, limited number of operational resources, lack of interoperability of systems and resources and limitation of joint operations and planning. it is essential that maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations are coordinated at european level in order to improve the knowledge of the maritime situation and to support coherent and cost-effective actions.
in writing. ‒ in the context of maritime surveillance, prevention and control, there are currently 316 national authorities working together across the european union (eu) through 70 different structures and with responsibility for numerous functions in a variety of areas. this is the main reason why the current cooperation system suffers from delays and shortcomings, including lack of information on other authorities, limited number of operational resources, lack of interoperability of systems and resources and limitation of joint operations and planning. the aim of this regulation is to coordinate at european level the monitoring, prevention and control of maritime activities (and not just fisheries), improving common knowledge and supporting coherent and effective action. the three european agencies the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency should cooperate with each other, combining capabilities and sharing surveillance information. the joint work of these agencies will facilitate the work of national authorities, allowing for joint and more effective action in control, safety and surveillance operations through the provision of information, equipment, training and the key coordination of multi-purpose operations. i agree with the proposal for a regulation and therefore approve this report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the proposal for a regulation should be adopted by the council on the basis of article 149 of the treaty. this triple step, which includes two other european parliament decisions (creation of the european border and coast guard and adaptations to the functioning of the european maritime safety agency), is fundamental to the full management of the european union's borders. in a period of uncertainty about the future, i regard this as a very positive step towards making the union more cohesive and solidary.
‒ the lisbon treaty, by establishing the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the european union, constituted a negative development in usurping this sphere of sovereignty. the european fisheries control agency is set up in this context. some have long wanted to go further and pursue the goal of creating a european union coast guard, a supranational structure for control and intervention in waters under the sovereignty and jurisdiction of each member state. the wave of migration to europe was the pretext he found. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
‒ the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office is responsible for monitoring the exercise of the office's powers of investigation on a regular basis in order to strengthen its independence. the framework for the implementation of the budget appropriations for the members of the supervisory committee should be drawn up in such a way as to avoid giving the impression of possible interference by the agency in the performance of its duties. i therefore voted in favour of the proposals submitted and the final version of the regulation.
‒ this report aims to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the european parliament has on several occasions called on the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, as there were concerns about possible conflicts of interest, and called for legal independence to be strengthened. the monitoring committee itself also stressed the importance of its independent and effective functioning and made suggestions in this regard. under the proposed new regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will now be provided by the commission, and no longer by olaf. the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to those of the commission (article 18), so that the proposed amendment will not have any financial impact on the eu budget. finally, the proposal amends the wording of article 10 (4) and (5) so that the competence of the data protection officer (dpo) of olaf continues to cover the processing of data by the secretariat, and the staff of the secretariat will continue to be subject to the same confidentiality rules as before.
‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf), governed by regulation no 883/2013, has the objectives of combating fraud against the budget of the european union, investigating corruption among officials of european organisations and developing anti-fraud policies and legislation. in recent years, the european parliament has stressed the importance of the independent functioning of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee. the proposal to which the report refers states that the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and no longer by olaf, and that the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff of olaf to those of the commission. i voted in favour because it is imperative to strengthen the independence of the functioning of the olaf monitoring committee secretariat and the amendments tabled will not have any financial implications.
‒ the objective of this report is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the olaf (european anti-fraud office) supervisory committee and to make it more effective. under the new regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will no longer be provided by olaf and will be provided by the european commission. the budgetary appropriations for this body will also be transferred from olaf's budgetary and staff headings to those of the commission, without any financial impact on the european budget. i agree in general with the proposed amendments, which were previously requested by the european parliament to the commission, in order to ensure the greater efficiency and independence that this body requires. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the european parliament has on several occasions asked the commission to take steps to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, as there were concerns about possible conflicts of interest. the monitoring committee itself also stressed the importance of its independent and effective functioning, which requires an independent and sufficiently staffed secretariat, in its 2013 and 2014 annual activity reports. the committee stressed that the exercise of the appointment power of the director-general of olaf, including decisions on promotions and transfers, could give rise to conflicts of interest and asked that his budget and that of his secretariat be shown under a separate heading from that of olaf's budget. under the proposed new regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will now be provided by the commission and no longer by olaf, and the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be transferred from the budget line and staff establishment of olaf to those of the commission (article 18), so that the proposed amendment will not have any financial impact on the european budget.
‒ the current multiannual financial framework was adopted in 2013 for the 2014-2020 programming period. i therefore believe that the mandatory 2016 review is important for three reasons: because this mff was the first to be adopted under the special legislative procedure provided for in the lisbon treaty, and it is therefore useful to assess the effectiveness of this procedure; because the mff reflects the eu's priorities in 2013, and therefore needs to be adapted to the challenges we face today; and because a review after the 2014 european elections reinforces the democratic legitimacy of a revised mff endorsed by the current composition of the institutions. the challenges we have faced in recent years, such as the migrant and refugee crisis, the financing of the strategic fund for strategic investments, the fight against unemployment (especially among young people) and the crisis in the agricultural sector, have led us to consider that the ceilings for the mff should be increased under the treaties. i would stress the need to increase funding for union structures which have acquired new powers, such as frontex or easo. i believe that the commitment to compensation under horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility should be respected. i therefore support the report.
‒ the current multiannual financial framework (mff) was the first to be adopted under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty and reflects the priorities of the union at the time of its adoption. however, the eu continues to face challenges that were not foreseen when the mff was adopted, and parliament has called for the inclusion of a post-election review clause. a review of the mff in 2016 should take stock of a number of major crises and new policy initiatives and their budgetary consequences that were not foreseen when they were adopted, including the migrant and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the crisis of payments to the eu budget and the persistence of high unemployment, especially among young people, as well as poverty and social exclusion.
‒ this report takes a position on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020. the european commission should submit a proposal for the revision of the mff regulation, initiating the special legislative procedure, which requires unanimity in the council and the consent of parliament by a majority of its members. the report mentions the fact that the mff has already reached its limits. it gives examples of the migration crisis, low investment, youth unemployment, 'internal security' issues, the agricultural crisis, environmental challenges and payment delays. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have already adopted the euro by a factor of two, i.e. by increasing the number of member states that have already adopted the euro by a factor of two. it is argued that the decision to adopt the mff regulation by the council should be taken by qualified majority. unfortunately, the report misses the essential point: the role of the budget in implementing the much-vaunted principle of economic and social cohesion. there is no real cohesion without a substantial increase in the eu budget, at least doubling it, and without a change in policies.
‒ the current multiannual financial framework, which was established in 2013 reflecting the priorities of the european union at the time of its adoption, has been tested in a number of situations for which no provision existed. given that the eu's financial and political priorities have multiplied and undergone some mutations, this change of circumstances should also be reflected in the mff. in this connection, democratic legitimacy must also be taken into account in the adoption of the mff, which is why a post-election review clause was included, thus giving the new commission and the newly elected parliament the opportunity to reassess the political and budgetary priorities of the european union and make the necessary adjustments. i therefore vote in favour of this report, since i believe it is important to adapt the financial allocations to the new challenges that are emerging.
‒ the current multiannual financial framework was adopted in 2013 for the period 2014-2020 and was the first to be adopted under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. in this context, the commission should review the functioning of the existing framework by the end of 2016, taking into account the economic context at that time and its future projections. between 2013 and 2016, major crises and new policy initiatives took place in the european space, which were not foreseen when this framework was formulated. the migrant and refugee crisis, worrying levels of unemployment (especially among young people), european fund for strategic investment funding and the agricultural crisis have therefore reinforced the importance of this reassessment. in order to respond to emerging crises, flexibility provisions and special instruments do not have the flexibility and scale to respond to similar situations, thus making it necessary to provide additional appropriations to respond to them in the future. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ regardless of the more or less specific aspects that the report rightly points out the payment deficit, the instruments and the flexibility margins , the simple truth is that this budget is totally incompatible with the proclaimed objectives of social and territorial cohesion set out in the treaties. this incompatibility arises from two orders of reason. firstly, the amounts are far below what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that would allow disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to richer regions. it is significant that this multiannual budget has been reduced for the first time in the history of european integration. secondly, this budget is short because a large part of these resources, which are already scarce, are not used to promote cohesion. a significant part of the budget is now being used to finance the eu's repressive and security policies, thus taking away funds that should be directed towards cohesion objectives or support for farmers who are victims of the eu's foreign policy. we want more money, but we demand that it be put to use in the service of a redistributive policy which reduces disparities and strengthens cohesion.
‒ i voted in favour of the olbrycht and thomas report because i agree with the need to revise the mff, given that the current one no longer responds to the growing challenges facing the eu. i therefore agree with a review of the mff to make it fit for the challenge and to revise the allocation of resources in an ambitious way to tackle the refugee and migration crisis, youth unemployment and stimulate stagnating economies.
‒ the scale of tax evasion and avoidance is estimated by the commission at €1 trillion per year, while the oecd estimates that the loss of revenue worldwide is between 4% and 10% of total corporate income tax revenues, equivalent to €75 to €180 billion per year at 2014 levels. the panama papers revelations reminded us that the issue of tax evasion goes beyond multinational corporations and is strongly linked to criminal activity, with offshore wealth estimated to be worth approximately $10 trillion. i regret that 13 countries do not have adequate rules to combat aggressive tax planning based on the tax-free distribution of dividends and that 14 member states do not have any control rules for foreign companies.
‒ this report is the result of the work of the second special committee set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. the mandate of this committee focused on the assessment of harmful tax regimes for multinationals at european and international level. the report undoubtedly contains positive elements, both in its diagnosis and in some of the proposals it makes. but, as happened with the first special committee, the report does not go to the root of the problem. there is an intention which runs through the whole report: to show that something changes, so that essentially everything or almost everything remains the same. to get to the root of the problem would be to understand the role of capitalist globalisation and to affirm the importance of public and democratic control of the financial system and the end of the free (free...) movement of capital; it would be to understand the role of the eu single market in creating conditions to promote the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits; it would be to point out and denounce, without contemplation, the mechanisms that promote tax avoidance and tax evasion, referring to the unavoidable role of tax havens and demanding their end. these are undoubtedly complex problems which require action at international level, which cannot be an excuse for inaction at national level, much less at european level.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax advisor would have been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor's tax advisor' tax advisor's tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor's tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' tax advisor' who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is who is this report sets out a series of measures to combat harmful tax practices and aims to ensure transparency, coordination and convergence of taxation policies for companies established in the european union. in particular, the report contains concrete proposals to strengthen the sanctioning component of the fight against such practices, which may involve, for example, the revocation of the licence to carry out the activity. i am therefore voting in favour of this report, as i believe that it is important to take effective measures to combat harmful tax practices by companies established in the member states, since they are an obstacle to their economic and social development.
‒ the recent tax evasion and avoidance scandals spearheaded by the panama papers and luxleaks have demonstrated the need for the union and its member states to combat misleading tax practices and to act to enhance cooperation and transparency in this area. the report stresses the importance of harmonising european tax systems and calls for urgent action to combat tax fraud and evasion, in particular by eradicating tax havens and combating aggressive tax planning. i am voting in favour of the need for a fairer tax system and considering it important to ensure the principle that taxes are paid where profits are generated.
‒ the extent of tax fraud and evasion is well known. the two taxe committees have confirmed this breadth and confirmed that this is a widespread practice throughout europe and in all capitalist economies. the report points to a number of highly relevant aspects. but it doesn't get to the bottom of it. because all these arrangements, which provide for genuine tax banquets, do not happen by chance. they are the result of a long process of financial deregulation, which has been intensified since the 1980s and which has been led by governments and parties present in this house today. let the dutch, the united kingdom or the luxembourg governments say so. we do not therefore fully support this report because it condemns the capitalist system which promotes the free movement of capital and financial liberalization by encouraging tax evasion. we therefore believe that an effective fight against tax evasion implies public control of the financial system and restrictions on capital movements. if we rely on the regulatory path only, it shows that we have learned nothing from the past.
‒ i voted in favour of the kofod and theurer report because i agree with the urgent need for the eu and its member states to fight tax evasion and avoidance and aggressive tax planning and to act to strengthen cooperation and transparency in order to restore tax justice. in this context, i would stress the call on the member states and the commission to adopt more legislative proposals on corporate tax avoidance, as there is room for member states to strengthen the rules to combat abuse and base erosion. i would also like to highlight the successful efforts of the socialist group to include in the report a request for regulation to protect whistleblowers.
‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main investment policy. it is aimed at all regions and cities in the european union to support job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development and to improve the quality of life of citizens. i support this report as i consider it necessary to increase synergies with other eu policies on competitiveness, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy with a view to increasing the rate of exploitation of r & d results in the eu, creating new high-quality jobs and maintaining existing ones, and promoting the green economy. furthermore, the commission and the member states should pay continuous attention to the needs of smes in the design and implementation of the european structural and investment funds (esif) and the horizon 2020 programme.
‒ cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period continues to be the eu's main instrument for bringing the union closer to its citizens, covering all regions for investment in the real economy and at the same time being the expression of european solidarity, spreading growth and prosperity and reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, which have been exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. in the 2014-2020 programming period, cohesion policy therefore gives financial instruments an important complementary role and leverage effect, as they can increase the impact of funding for up-to-date innovation in the market, as well as for r&d projects and projects that are highly focused on societal challenges.
in writing. ‒ in principle, we will not be against the need to exploit synergies between horizon 2020 (the research framework programme) and the structural and investment funds which are themselves a fruit of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 and a (confusion) between structural funds and investment funds. but this resolution hides essential issues. the structural and investment funds are one of the main instruments at the service of cohesion policy. they are not, and have never been, sufficient, even in conjunction with the other instruments, to give effect to the principle of cohesion, far from it. cohesion is nothing but dead letter on the pages of the treaties. as usual, by the way. the research framework programme has always been an instrument which is mainly used by the large countries, which are more powerful economically and have more developed scientific and technological systems. for this reason, portugal, for example, was a net contributor to the previous programmes, i.e. it contributed more money than it had the capacity to collect. the framework programme, including horizon 2020, lacks a cohesion dimension, without which it is nothing but an instrument of divergence. none of these original sins have been corrected in the current mfn. on the contrary, they have been aggravated, a fact which the resolution ignores.
‒ the european structural and investment funds are the main instrument of the european union's investment policy, with a budget of eur 454 billion for the period 2014-2020, and are managed by the eu countries in a decentralised manner under a shared management system. in this framework, coherence and synergy between all eu instruments should be ensured in order to achieve the overall strategic objectives and to avoid overlaps or contradictions between these instruments or between different levels of policy implementation, while complementing national and regional funds and programmes. in this regard, the review of the europe 2020 strategy should identify a more efficient use of available resources and achieve the expected results in terms of overall strategic objectives, given that the quantity, quality and impact of r&d investments should be increased through the coordinated use of the instruments of cohesion policy and horizon 2020. i am voting in favour of this, as i believe it is important to promote synergies in the implementation of the various structural funds in order to ensure a more effective implementation and to contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the union's policy framework.
‒ the cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 financial programme aims to increase investment in the real economy and promote solidarity between citizens in all regions, thereby reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between them. cohesion policy should be in sync with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. however, i believe that efforts should be made to increase synergies with other european policies in the field of competitiveness, information and communication technologies, research and development, support for smes and job creation policies. nevertheless, in the light of all the above, i support this joint resolution.
‒ this report focuses on the importance of synergies for innovation between the european structural and investment funds (esif), the horizon 2020 programme and other union funds in the field of innovation. cohesion policy remains the eu's main instrument for bringing the eu closer to its citizens, bringing together all regions for investment in the real economy and thus constituting the main expression of european solidarity. the esi funds, by virtue of the common provisions, are perfectly aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in doing so, it should be result-oriented by enhancing synergies with other european policies in terms of enhancing competitiveness, particularly in areas focusing on research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes. the involvement of national or regional managing authorities and universities, industry and social partners in smart specialisation strategies in the search for and realisation of these synergies is essential for member states and, above all, for regions wishing to invest erdf resources in these areas of research and innovation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i consider it very important that there are synergies that catalyse the most appropriate use of all sources of funding, including those from the european union. i find that this report points in that direction, by identifying a number of possibilities and opportunities for improvement. i am concerned that budget cuts have been made in the horizon 2020 programme and so it seems to me that the synergies now identified can help to close this gap. as mentioned, it seems to me important that the commission systematically monitors synergies between the funds and publishes a communication on these synergies, in particular on the synergies between horizon 2020 and ris3, with the aim of disseminating examples of best practices and increasing their impact in the perspective of the review of the europe 2020 strategy. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in the same vein, the commission has been working on the implementation of the new eu-portugal association agreement, which will be signed in brussels on 1 january. portugal was a net contributor to the 7th research framework programme, the predecessor of horizon 2020. that is, the same country that for years has been funding the science of the rich, including some who are now calling for sanctions. portugal's structural funds are largely outstripped by capital transfers from portugal to the european union in the form of interest, profits and dividends. it is not just the pressure and blackmail of the european commission that is illegitimate and intolerable. it is also the real extortion to which they continue to subject the portuguese people.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission should provide more information on the synergies of cohesion policy with the other funds, such as horizon 2020 (h2020), which are currently underestimated. i believe that to close this gap, synergies with other eu competitiveness policies, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes, should be strengthened with a view to better exploiting the results of research carried out in the eu, creating new high-quality jobs and maintaining existing ones, as well as promoting the green economy.
‒ the commission work programme for 2017, consistent with the assumptions of the review of the mff 2014-2020 and the eu budget for 2017, should seek to strengthen citizens' confidence in the integration project by tackling the crises we face more effectively. i agree that the eu's migration and asylum policy must be reviewed, but that no reform of the common european asylum system should result in less protection than is currently the case. i stress the need for greater cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of refugees, but i also stress the urgency of committing the member states to a more dignified, committed and effective system of reception and relocation of refugees. i believe that the building of a 'european pillar of social rights' will be successful only if concrete action is taken in the fields of education and work, with a particular focus on combating youth unemployment and promoting decent work. i share the view that the necessary deepening of economic and monetary union must be accompanied by a more active policy in defence of fundamental rights and democracy. i therefore support the joint motion for a resolution.
‒ europe is facing many common and global challenges today, but also growing frustration and concern on the part of many citizens about the uncertainty of life prospects and the lack of opportunities that citizens expect policymakers to address. the eu is our common home and must provide its citizens with a safe space and a stable economic environment. however, europe's economic recovery has been modest and unbalanced, and many regions of the union continue to experience unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty, inequality and a serious lack of prospects for younger generations. promoting access to and quality of early childhood education, childcare facilities and child health care, closing skills gaps, reducing social inequalities, promoting quality employment and addressing the challenges of work-life balance should be the focus of the commission's thinking in the near future.
the joint motion for a resolution, signed by the right (conservatives, liberals) and the social democrats, thus demonstrating the vitality of the sacred alliance that has underpinned the course of european capitalist integration, is revealing of the nature of these forces and the gravity of the moment we are going through: a deep political, economic and social crisis inherent in the process of european capitalist integration, which highlights the deep contradictions that characterize it, as a result of its class nature. these forces are now dogmatically defending a project which reality shows to be exhausted, and are trying new ways of escaping, deepening the eu's federalist character and the concentration of power in the great powers and the supranational institutions at their service, against the interests and aspirations of the peoples. but the resolution tabled by our group shows that this is not an inevitable path. on the contrary, a different europe, of the workers and the peoples, is possible, one which respects national sovereignty and the equality of rights between states, and which is a champion of social progress, peace and cooperation between peoples. the resolution contains proposals of wide-ranging scope, including the repeal of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty of lisbon, the creation of a programme to support member states wishing to leave the euro and the renegotiation of debts.
‒ a resolution forged between the right and the social democrats, which has the aftermath of the vote in the uk referendum and a reformist and forward-looking vision that points to the solution of deepening the process of european capitalist integration, more federalism, more austerity and more militarism. it refers to the deepening of the lisbon treaty and the completion of economic and monetary union and banking union. it whitewashes and endorses the current criminal eu migration policy and the militarization of the response to a humanitarian crisis, as well as the xenophobic and racist view of integration based on the qualifications of asylum seekers. the security and militarist vision, the deepening of the european external agenda and the strengthening of cooperation with nato are presented without surprise, using the pretext of the fight against terrorism to defend further integration and external interference obvious efforts to whitewash the deep crisis in which the european union is immersed, the contradictions that result from it and its policies and the oppressive character of this project in the most diverse areas. history is showing how necessary it is to break with this edifice that serves the interests of capital, in order to build a europe of cooperation and relations between states of equal rights. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european project is going through one of its most sensitive phases since the schuman declaration in 1950. the refugee crisis, the successive terrorist attacks, the economic crisis and the result of the referendum in the united kingdom clearly jeopardise the deepening of the union. i therefore believe that the main priority is to strengthen citizens' confidence in the project of integration, cooperation and solidarity that we all aspire to today as we did in the past. this resolution covers several priority areas for action, all of which are important for the development of this joint project. i share the importance of ensuring better working conditions for our citizens, while boosting the european economy and generating wealth for the long term. i also share the idea that we must complete emu, without forgetting the potential of the single market, which must be adapted to the digital age. i believe it is urgent to ensure better levels of security within our borders, while at the same time creating better integration conditions for all those seeking asylum in member states. the present proposal addresses all these concerns and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ europe's economic recovery has been modest and uneven. many regions of the union continue to suffer from unacceptable levels of unemployment, poverty, inequality and a serious lack of prospects for young generations. in this sense, the eu must work towards a dynamic and inclusive labour market that makes a decisive contribution to improving the lives of citizens and enabling their mobility. the commission should therefore take into account in its 2017 programme: improving the working and living conditions of european citizens; strengthening economic recovery and long-term competitiveness with a view to creating jobs, raising living standards and generating prosperity; an adequate response to climate change, ensuring energy security; a consistent response to the increased influx of refugees; citizens' security concerns; the implementation of an ambitious external action agenda; fair fiscal policies; the strengthening of the eu budget and financial instruments and the strengthening of fundamental rights and democracy.
‒ this programme of work highlights the profound political, economic and social crisis of the project of european capitalist integration and the profound contradictions which characterize it, which result from its class nature. a crisis which confirms the growing alienation of the peoples of europe from the european union and its policies of exploiting workers and peoples for the benefit of big european capital. this programme, instead of looking at the reality and the need to respond to people's problems and aspirations, looks deeper into the policies that have been at the root of the social crisis that has dragged thousands into unemployment and poverty. it insists on so-called structural reforms and budgetary austerity, while continuing to promote the recapitalisation of banks at the expense of the public purse. this eu is not reformable. we hope that sooner rather than later the peoples of europe will rise up and put an end to this process of capitalist integration and build a different europe, the europe of the workers and of solidarity between peoples.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the commission work programme for 2017, as i agree with the strategic priorities presented for the european commission work programme for 2017. the strategic priorities set are appropriate to the challenges facing the eu: improving the living conditions of europeans, strengthening the economy, responding to the opportunities associated with the energy transition and the digital revolution, integrating refugees, completing economic and monetary union, developing an ambitious foreign policy and fighting tax evasion. i would stress that these strategic priorities must move from the paper to the concrete life of european citizens. the commission must take a constructive and not a punitive attitude. the euro area's shared budget has to be clearly strengthened, approaching 10% of european gdp, to support a functioning monetary area. transparency and democratic control must be strengthened. without these assumptions, the commission will hardly achieve in 2017 what it has not achieved in the previous years of its mandate.
‒ despite an international ban that came into force in 1986, japan continued its whaling activities, killing more than 20 000 whales by 2014 in an activity that causes great suffering to the animals and threatens the conservation status of all whale populations. the court ordered japan to suspend its annual whaling. i am concerned that the decision to resume whaling has allowed the hunting of 333 dwarf whales, including 200 pregnant females, and that japan intends to hunt a total of almost 4 000 whales over the 12-year period, in complete disregard of the court decision.
in writing. in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency notified the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling under a revised 12-year plan - hunting that, in fact, has hardly ever stopped. this plan would allow the killing of 333 antarctic dwarf whales during the 2015-2016 season and a total of nearly 4,000 whales over the entire 12-year period. the international whaling commission (iwc) banned commercial whaling of all whale species in 1982. however, japan continued whaling under various pretexts, including pretexts of scientific studies, and by 2008/2009 japan had killed over 17000 whales. in 2013, australia and new zealand took japan to the international court of justice, which rejected japan's scientific whaling program. japan is clearly ignoring the court's and the iwc's decision by resuming whaling activities. those activities constitute a violation of international law and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, in particular because many of the targeted and non-targeted species caught are endangered. the resolution expresses this set of concerns in an overall correct and appropriate way. we voted in favour.
‒ although in 1882 the international whaling commission imposed a moratorium on all commercial whaling activities to limit the killing and commercial exploitation of whales in order to prevent their extinction and promote their recovery, the truth is that this is still a practice in many countries. considering that japan is a strategic partner of the european union and that the bilateral relationship is based on common values, including a firm belief in effective multilateralism and a rules-based international order, the eu should use its weight on the international scene and condemn the resumption of whaling practices in japan, as the protection and promotion of the environment and biodiversity should be a key element of its action. i am voting in favour of this because i believe that whaling is threatening the survival of species and biodiversity in our oceans and that the eu should adopt a common position on this matter.
‒ the international whaling commission is concerned with the judicious conservation of whales and the orderly development of the whaling industry. in 1986 the commission adopted a moratorium on commercial whaling, which is still in force today and aims to protect and enable the recovery of the species. this resolution deplores the fact that japan ignores the decisions prohibiting the continuation of whaling, on the grounds of hunting for scientific purposes, in the period 2015-2016 under a programme called newrep-a. however, the commission investigators concluded that the justification for such a programme did not demonstrate the need for such practices. considering that it is important to protect marine biodiversity and ensure the conservation of species, as well as to respect the international conclusions defined by the international whaling commission, i vote in favour.
in 1982, the international whaling commission (iwc) imposed a moratorium on all commercial whaling activities (which came into force in 1986), which is still in force, in order to protect stocks from extinction and allow their recovery (the moratorium includes special provisions allowing the hunting of limited quantities of animals for strictly scientific purposes). commercial whaling continues to be practiced by several countries and the number of whales killed under special licences for purported scientific research has been increasing (japan has been doing this for decades). since the ban came into force in 1986, japan has continued its whaling activities, killing more than 20,000 whales by 2014. this resolution urges japan to cease its whaling activities and to respect the iwc's conclusions.
in writing. ‒ in 1982, the international whaling commission (iwc) imposed a moratorium on all commercial whaling activities in order to protect whale stocks, combat their extinction and enable their recovery. however, the activity is still practised by some countries. in 2014, the international court of justice (icj) ordered japan to suspend its annual whaling due to 'lack of scientific merit' and the fact that the permits granted were not being used for scientific research as stated. in 2015, the japan fisheries agency notified the cbi that it would resume whaling for scientific purposes. as japan is a strategic partner of the eu, outlining the same common values, this motion for a resolution (proposed by 7 parliamentary groups), which i agree with, is aimed at urging japan to cease these activities, respecting the iwc conclusions. in fact, despite diplomatic efforts and widespread international protest, japan has not yet given in to its position, and the eu institutions and member state governments are called upon to use all available bilateral and multilateral channels to force japan to reverse its decision.
‒ in 30 years of experience in scientific research at sea, my teams and i have conducted numerous studies on the biology, food ecology, ecotoxicology, migration and population dynamics of various species of atlantic cetaceans. in addition, we used information from animals we found washed up on the shore. we studied behavior, analyzed sketches, performed biopsies, conducted censuses, put transmitters and sensors on individuals that we monitored through hydrophones and satellites, and produced mathematical models that we used to understand these fascinating animals. in these studies, we never had to kill any subjects! technological developments now give us tools and methods that, while intrusive in some cases, do little to disturb the animals in their study. the study of stable isotopes, genetic analysis and genomics allows us to know about eating habits, migration dynamics and even kinship relations. there is now a huge body of nonlethal methods that are excellent approximations to reality and are fully accepted by the scientific community. for these reasons, i consider it false to argue the need to use lethal methods for scientific purposes. for all these reasons, and more, i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the international whaling commission (iwc) banned commercial whaling for all whale species in 1982. however, japan continued whaling under various pretexts, including pretexts for scientific studies, and by 2008/2009 japan had killed over 17,000 whales. in 2013, australia and new zealand took japan to the international court of justice, which rejected japan's scientific whaling program. japan is clearly ignoring the court's and the iwc's decision by resuming whaling activities. these activities constitute a violation of international law and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, especially as many of the targeted and non-targeted species caught are endangered. the resolution expresses this set of concerns in an overall correct and appropriate way.
‒ belarus is a centralised and autocratic state, subject to strict control by its president, and despite some positive measures taken since august 2015, widespread and systematic human rights violations continue. human rights defenders and journalists are monitored and often harassed, which is something this decision does not take into account and which therefore deserves my vote against.
‒ we are faced with the familiar rosary of arguments against the sovereignty of belarus and the choices of its people. this resolution repeats the whole eu manual of intervention, contending with russia, the usa and nato for influence over this country. this is in breach of a delegated act of the european commission granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations in favour of investment projects. the european commission proposal is considered not to take due account of all aspects of the respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus, even after the council decided on 15 february 2016 that the eu would no longer apply the main restrictive measures. despite the differences which obviously separate us from the government in minsk, we do not support this resolution, which not only does not recognize the sovereignty of the belarusian people in choosing the political power that governs the country and their economic, social and cultural choices, but also supports direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of one of the basic principles of international law. it is up to each people to define, without interference, the political, economic and social system which best meets its interests and aspirations.
‒ the european union has been trying to re-establish relations with belarus, including through technical dialogues on specific issues: cooperation through the multilateral strand of the eastern partnership, support for civil society, opening negotiations for agreements on visa facilitation and readmission and the opening of negotiations on a mobility partnership, dialogue on reforms needed for belarus' modernisation and on the possibilities for developing relations with the eu, including financial support. however, there are a number of obstacles to a more healthy relationship between the eu and belarus, notably in the area of defence of human rights, freedom of expression and the press and the defence of democratic values. progress or backwardness on these issues should be a weighting criterion in the allocation of any eu financial support, in this case the provision of a guarantee to the european investment bank. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this proposal, as i believe that the eu should promote respect for fundamental rights in cooperation with third countries.
‒ belarus is a centralised state within whose territorial boundaries there is no scrupulous and timely observance of democratic principles. its president, lukashenko, was last re-elected in 2015 with 83.5% of the vote. despite this re-election, widespread and systematic human rights violations continue to be committed in belarus. human rights activists and journalists are frequently monitored and harassed by the authorities, and journalists, whether independent or foreign, are also subject to detention, prosecution and fines. belarus is not only the only country in europe with the death penalty, but has already applied it three times during the first half of 2016. such practices are reprehensible. however, it is a neighbour of the european union, which has the potential to be a strategic partner for the union and can make progress on the above issues. i shall therefore abstain in this vote.
‒ this text repeats the entire eu manual of intervention, contending with russia, the us and nato for influence over belarus, a country which, even with various types of pressure, has maintained its independence and sovereignty. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the fight against terrorism, which aims to improve the effectiveness of the eu's response to terrorism and to strengthen the capacity of the eu to respond to it. despite the differences between us and the government in minsk, we do not support the majority in the ep which not only does not recognise the sovereignty of the belarusian people in choosing the political power that governs the country and their economic, social and cultural choices, but also supports direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of one of the basic principles of international law. we have always defended and have as a fundamental principle the defence of the independence and sovereignty of peoples, it being for each people to define the political, economic and social system which best meets its interests and aspirations, we do not agree once again with this attempt to put pressure on the way to interfere in the internal affairs of a country.
‒ the european banking authority has issued an opinion to the commission expressing its disagreement with some of the proposed amendments to the final draft regulatory technical standards (rtns) on the criteria for determining the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). however, the commission should, in a new delegated act, take into account the assessment of the ability of systemic institutions to meet the burden-sharing requirements, the elimination of the downward adjustment test for the recapitalisation amount and the peer-to-peer comparison for systemic institutions and, finally, the maintenance in the delegated regulation of the 48-month deadline for the transition period.
‒ in writing. ‒ in accordance with the second paragraph of article 45 of directive 2014/59/eu (bank recovery and resolution directive), the european commission may adopt, following submission of preliminary standards by the european banking authority, delegated acts specifying valuation criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. the resolution is based on the grounds that the political group which proposed it considers that the european commission has weakened the regulatory technical standards of the european banking authority, putting at risk the functioning of the bail-in provisions in the bank recovery and resolution directive. although criticism is directed at the european commission, the criticism in this objection is not limited to the banking union and its real objectives, as well as to this specific banking union directive and its inability to prevent further bailouts of private banks from being carried out with public money. of course, such criticisms are not contained in a resolution with the above-mentioned motivation, nor should they be. our abstention is inseparable from the fundamental disagreement we have on the whole building of the banking union, including this directive, which is an integral part of it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of directive 2014/59/eu on deposit-guarantee schemes is to facilitate access to and the pursuit of the business of credit institutions by removing certain differences between the laws of the member states as regards the rules on deposit-guarantee schemes to which credit institutions are subject. article 45 (2) of directive 2014/59/eu empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts specifying valuation criteria for the methodology for determining the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. in this context, the commission has submitted this draft delegated regulation, which has been substantially amended. i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i believe that the commission should revise its proposal in order to maintain these criteria, ensure the coherence of the directive and ensure legal certainty.
‒ this motion for a resolution is to some extent opposed to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the methodology for determining the minimum capital requirement and the minimum eligible liabilities (mrel). the relevant delegated regulation of 23 may 2016 specifies the criteria that bank resolution authorities should consider when determining mrel for loss absorption and recapitalisation effects. the objective of mrel is to ensure that banks hold sufficient high quality capital and liabilities eligible for high quality bail-in that can be readily used to absorb losses and for recapitalisation purposes once it has been secured through resolution. these criteria are very important, as they ensure that in times of financial difficulties the banking institution concerned is 'saved' and supported by its shareholders and creditors - and, crucially, not by taxpayers. the recommendations in this report do not make any clear improvements to the commission's delegated regulation, so my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ we believe that, as regards systemic institutions, assessing the possibility of meeting burden-sharing requirements is a requirement that should be explicitly maintained in the delegated regulation, to ensure consistency with the directive and to ensure legal certainty. the commission has deleted two other provisions in the draft rules submitted by eba which are important for the application of the mrel and for the internal recapitalisation. in this respect, the assumptions of the delegated act are lacking.
while falling short of expectations by not proposing the creation of common european defence capabilities, the global strategy presented by high representative mogherini seeks to address the various challenges we face in the union. in a globalised world, where threats and challenges cross borders, citizens recognise - and this is what all the eurobarometers prove - that only with a bigger and better union can we guarantee collective security. the problem is that governments, in the intergovernmental drift that has been affecting the union, are slow to recognise this. soft power is not enough, as mrs mogherini pointed out here today. no, you won't! the union must therefore strengthen its strategic autonomy in defence and security capabilities by coordinating resources and policies to ensure civil and military resilience with the means to respond rapidly and in a coordinated manner to the crises under way here in libya, to a possible crisis in the china sea with a global stabilising impact. to defend european citizens, principles and interests only with a courageous political leadership that recognises the common interest, coordinates and gives coherence to internal policies and external actions and acts globally to promote human security, on the basis of the principles of international law.
mr president, ‘as long as we are in government there will not be a palestinian state, settlements will not be evacuated and no territory will be turned over to the enemy.’ these words uttered last may by a young israeli woman, who happens to be justice minister, shows that she knows what is needed to make peace, but chooses war. this desperate denial of the existential danger israel faces for letting the peace process die, the cry of despair that we heard from president abbas who was here last month, the cries of despair we hear in the open-air prison, gaza, in the occupied west bank, the cries of despair heard every time palestinian kids stab israeli kids, tell us how the status quo is untenable as you said, you said there is not even a status quo. so we cannot afford it. we, palestinians, israelis, the region, the eu, the world, but just issuing this quartet-led report is not enough, no matter how relevant its conclusions. the french conference recommended reviving the arab peace initiative. please consider mobilising our parliament to help you make the difference and overcome any discord and any disagreement you find among our member states. make the difference please, ms mogherini.
mr president, other colleagues have already spoken here of the joy of having the yunus with us. i would also like to speak about the usefulness of the resolution adopted by the european parliament to express solidarity and to press for the release of the revus in angola, which took place last week. but despite our actions here in parliament and the policy instruments adopted by the council, such as the action plan for human rights and a renewed democracy in 2015, the truth is that we have moved the european union to an intolerable level of contradiction and cynicism, under the guise of responding to the influx of refugees and migrants. the disastrous policy of partnership agreements with third countries, which the council has adopted in order to respond to the migration flow, is intended to use the instruments of development to pay off corrupt and oppressive regimes, the manufacturers of refugees and migrants. as one activist in africa recently said, "are they going to pay tyrants to shoot at us, to stop us from escaping from tyranny? other it is tragic enough to see europe asking poorer countries to open their doors to refugees, while member states refuse and attack refugees, imprisoning refugees, as is happening now in turkey and greece, in hotspots. will we have the courage, mrs mogherini, mr lambrinidis - myself, us members - will our governments have the courage and will they be effective in defending human rights when this is happening in the european union itself? we are not only destroying europe, we are destroying the very struggle for human rights.
mr president, madam high commissioner, in recent years human rights and democracy have suffered several setbacks in different parts of the world. these setbacks are the direct result of wars and terrorism, but they also stem from the criminalisation of fundamental freedoms, the persecution of minorities, religious and racial hatred, human trafficking and the exploitation of natural resources. fortunately, we have also seen some significant progress from year to year, and a number of these progresses are linked to action by the european union, as is, moreover, evident in this report. we welcome, for example, the progress made in making the european union's trade agreements with third countries conditional on respect for human rights. the implementation of the generalised scheme of trade preferences since january 2014 is a very important step in this direction, as is the systematic inclusion in our trade and foreign investment policy since 2012 of impact assessments on human rights and sustainable development. on the contrary, it does not seem that the european union is as committed as it should be to the process of the binding international treaty on the responsibility of transnational corporations in the field of human rights, which is being prepared at un level. i therefore hope that at the next meeting of the intergovernmental working group in october the european union will be able to demonstrate its utmost commitment to tackling this very pressing issue.
in writing. the debate on the legal basis in the eu treaties for legislation on the protection of whistleblowers is not a legal issue but a political one, and above all a question of political will. the status quo is intolerable where those with integrity and courage to speak out against corruption, tax fraud and other crimes and to expose information of clear public interest are subjected to retaliation without any legal protection. we need a horizontal framework of protection at eu level. we must protect freedom of expression and those who fight for decency and the rule of law in our societies, such as antoine deltour and raphael halet, the two former pricewaterhousecoopers employees who were at the origin of the luxleaks scandal, and who were perversely sentenced by the luxembourg judiciary to 12 and 9 months in prison respectively, with suspended sentences. the commission is using an excuse about the legal basis for not acting. but this is a political choice, and we have to move now. a society that protects its whistleblowers will certainly be a more transparent, a more just, a more equal and a more democratic society.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when europe is facing a high number of cases of obesity, when the main problem is sedentary lifestyle and a lack of healthy eating habits, we must take very seriously the public health problem posed by aggressive advertising and marketing practices for foods that are considered potentially harmful to health. i am referring in particular to the case of energy drinks, which are regularly consumed by some 68% of adolescents and 18% of children. as the european parliament prepares to vote on a motion for a resolution opposing the authorization of new health claims for caffeine, i cannot but support this objection because i consider it relevant and timely. this objection is intended to contradict the general principle that claims about caffeine are beneficial because they increase endurance and performance as well as the ability to concentrate by stimulating the central nervous system, while not taking into account the fact that the largest number of consumers of this type of beverage are precisely children and adolescents. commissioner, i myself, being portuguese, am an avid coffee drinker. however, i also know the harm it can do to your health if taken in excess. for these reasons i think it is right that some political groups in this house have refused to accept health claims for the marketing of consumer products when in practice it is not possible to select the target consumer a priori by separating them from the younger layers. commissioner, i would like to stress the importance of the european commission continuing to improve the instruments that promote good dietary practices, giving priority to the promotion and safeguarding of public health over purely commercial interests. i would like to conclude by congratulating the authors of this motion for a resolution on their excellent work. portugal is winning by two goals.
i think that we cannot ignore three points: access for disabled people to the labour market and to adequate remuneration is fundamental. children with disabilities need increased protection and their families and carers need support, information and training to reduce the risk of abandonment or institutionalisation. the solutions also include creating awareness-raising initiatives, both in companies and in civil society, about the potential of these citizens, creating specific tools or programmes for the adaptation of infrastructures, encouraging the creation of accompanying and reception entities complementary to family action, and using programmes such as horizon 2020 to encourage research in this area. commissioner, all disabled people have the right to live in a society with equal opportunities. it is the duty of the european institutions to honour this convention in future documents and legislation, and the member states must make the necessary efforts to comply with its provisions. only then can we deliver on our commitment to an inclusive europe, without barriers for its citizens.
with richard howitt and laima andrikienė i visited nabeel rajab, mr al-khawaja and ibrahim sharif in prison in bahrain some years ago. ibrahim sharif, i recall, is not even a shia. he is a sunni who dared to expose corruption in the regime and, since then, the situation has deteriorated and gravely in the last months, as our resolution documents. the regime in bahrain is behaving in a totally pyrominous and suicidal way in a region that cannot afford more conflict. one should say that actually our policy regarding bahrain has been set in the last year since the uprising into 2011 in london – and for reasons that have nothing to do with human rights, nor with europe’s strategic interests. they have to do with the strategic interests of london in the trade of arms with the saudi regime. we cannot afford this anymore. miss mogherini, stop appeasing the regime. please use the next ministerial meeting of the eu gcc to actually send a very stern message to the bahrainis and to their partners in the region.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i also welcome mrs mogherini for being here today for this urgent debate on human rights. the new civilian government in myanmar, which is the result of democratic elections which i have had the privilege of observing as a member of the delegation to this parliament, if it is to give real credibility to the building of democracy in the country, must give priority to an action plan to combat discrimination against the rohingya and other ethnic and religious minorities. this is essential if there is to be a genuine process of national reconciliation and this plan must include the criminal prosecution of all leaders of nationalist buddhist forces who spread hatred and xenophobia. the sakharov prize laureate, aung san suu kyi, has special responsibilities as a member of this government and as a figure of democracy and respect for human rights, not only in the country but in the world. it must therefore speak out clearly and publicly for the protection of the rohingya and it must facilitate access for international organisations to rakhine state and it must propose the necessary legislative reforms. and we, the european union, must not only put pressure on the burmese government, but also on the governments of other countries that have problems with the rohingya, which cannot continue to ignore the principle of non-refoulement.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam high representative, the tragedy of the rohingya refugees in myanmar has reached such dimensions that it challenges us all in the depths of our ethical and political consciousness. this muslim minority is discriminated against and persecuted by the burmese authorities who do not recognise them as national citizens, forcing many of their members to leave the country in conditions of great precariousness. men, women and children often end up in the clutches of sinister human trafficking networks that beat them and abandon them on the high seas without food or water, or else, outright murderers. at a time when the winds of islamophobia are blowing ever stronger in europe, it would be good if the european union authorities took concrete steps to convince the myanmar government that there are more advantages in respecting the rights of the rohingya minority than in violating those rights.
‒ the eu contributes substantially to the formulation of policies within the un and should further enhance its contribution to the continuous improvement of global governance through the un, especially in a period of change in which global power is diffusing and global threats dominate the political agenda. on the basis of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, i support the kovatchev report, which makes a series of recommendations to the council on promoting peace and security in the face of the conflicts raging in the world and the importance of humanitarian action, the fight against terrorism, including its financing, recruitment of its members, disarmament, support for migration flows and the fight against smuggling of persons and trafficking in human beings. i reiterate the importance of promoting the values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on which the eu is founded and which also underpin the un acquis, and the need to achieve the sustainable development goals and to set an agenda for policy coherence for development.
‒ the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, centred on the united nations, is an integral part of the eu's foreign policy and is based on the conviction that a multilateral system founded on universal rules and values, which must be respected and observed, is best suited to address crises, challenges and threats on a global scale. the eu and its member states are collectively the largest individual financial contributor to the un system, providing about one-third of the un's regular budget, almost two-fifths of the un's peacekeeping budget and about half of all contributions to its funds and programmes. the eu should therefore urge the united nations to actively promote measures to ensure that all parties directly or indirectly involved in armed conflicts and their organisations fully respect international obligations and the rules of public international law and to make efforts to find peaceful and diplomatic solutions to conflicts of all kinds.
‒ this report makes recommendations with a view to the 71st united nations general assembly. the report takes as its starting point a contextualisation of the world and regional situation which is considered to be deteriorating. it sets out what it considers to be the threats to eu security. it advocates the strengthening of european militarism within the framework of the european security strategy. the 'challenges' listed are: violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented migration, climate change, hybrid and information warfare, cyber threats, bioengineering, lethal autonomous systems, nanotechnologies, the miniaturisation of weapons systems and the proliferation of dual-use technologies. in other words, the 'new' nato strategic concept and its rationale are replicated. it is not worthwhile to enumerate the enormous contradictions of the eu with regard to the supposed defence of the environment or democracy and human rights. the negative aspects of the report - apart from the mystifications, contradictions and vile statements - are more than enough to justify our vote against it. the defence of eu representation at the un, including in the security council, is maintained, contrary to the spirit of the organisation and attacking the sovereignty of european states, which we reject.
‒ in its external relations, the european union plays an important role in global governance, due to its great capacity for influence. in the face of current global threats and challenges, the union should use its influence on the international scene and contribute positively to responding to these challenges, including through multilateral support for peaceful political solutions to conflicts in north africa and the middle east, by supporting efforts to strengthen the response capacity of un peacekeeping forces, by supporting counter-terrorism campaigns, by strengthening support for unhcr's work in the field of refugee protection, by reaffirming the universal and irrevocable nature of human rights enshrined in the various un conventions, by strengthening the assertion of freedom of religion and belief, among others. i therefore vote in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must play a proactive role and make an effective contribution to global solutions, to peace and security, to development, to human rights, to democracy and to an international order based on the rule of law.
‒ this report continues the european parliament's narrative of making recommendations to the un general assembly. the report, which takes the world and regional situation into account, sets out the threats to the security of the european union in order to justify the policy of securing europe and strengthening european militarism with a view to pursuing a european security strategy. it is shameful that the european union's role in the criminal response to the refugee tragedy has been whitewashed. the eu, which claims to be a staunch defender of human rights, violates them with impunity in its response to migration. it is sarcastic to claim that the eu is a promoter of environmental sustainability when its environmental policies are in the service of the market and financial interests. the proposal to align and combine un policy with the eu's foreign and security agenda is unacceptable. it is sarcastic to call on member states to take action on disarmament when the eu is increasing its military budgets and its militarization. it is sarcastic to praise the un for adopting a resolution on the right of each country to restructure its sovereign debt, when the eu and its impositions prevent states from renegotiating debts sovereignly. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i want to reinforce the attention that needs to be given to: the role of women in peace processes; the representation of women at all levels of decision-making; children's rights; gender equality; nuclear non-proliferation and global disarmament; human rights in migration; zero tolerance for the death penalty; lgbti rights; the definition of climate refugees and absolute intransigence on respect for human rights.
‒ the european union (eu) is committed to good global governance and multilateralism by playing a proactive role in the united nations through contributions to the common search for global solutions, whether it be peace, security, development, human rights, democracy or the international order based on the rule of law. the european parliament (ep) has therefore drawn up the report voted on today, which contains some proposals for the next un general assembly, to be held in september. the report, which i supported, considers that the eu should continue to support multilateral attempts to find lasting political (and peaceful) solutions to regional conflicts, especially in the middle east and north africa, and continue to strengthen un peace operations, while reiterating its condemnation of terrorism and its support for actions aimed at combating terrorist organisations. human rights (agreed upon in the un conventions) are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and must be scrupulously respected. i also stress the need to reform the security council in order to promote the revitalization of the work of the general assembly and the consequent improvement in the coordination and coherence of un action.
‒ this own-initiative report, which contains a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, is a comprehensive and important document in defining consensus positions in diverse and crucial areas. in this context, i would like to stress that one of those recommendations is to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change and that it cooperates with the un in this area. i agree that swift implementation of the decisions taken at the 2015 united nations climate change conference in paris must be ensured. this is a crucial issue. if humanity fails to address the enormous climate change problem that it has caused, humanity will be one of the victims. that is one of the reasons why i voted in favour of this wide-ranging set of recommendations to the council.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, including the need to combat terrorism and organised crime, and to ensure that the eu is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it is ironic that the eu claims to promote environmental sustainability when the opposite is true. the intention of the european union's policies is to put the supposed protection of the environment at the service of the market and business. it is a shame that the european union considers itself a staunch defender of human rights when it whistles aside the odessa massacre and supports fascist and murderous regimes; or when it treats the refugee crisis as it does. it's to see what happens in denmark, in france or in hungary and austria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kovatchev report because i agree with the proposals put forward for the programme of the 71st united nations general assembly, particularly on the issue of migration. i consider it crucial to promote greater support for the activities of the united nations high commissioner for refugees in implementing its international mandate for the protection of refugees, with particular attention to vulnerable groups such as women and children. this will require more funding for unhcr. i would also like to highlight that the eu and its member states are collectively the largest individual financial contributor to the un system, providing about one third of the un's regular budget, almost two-fifths of the un's peacekeeping budget and about half of all contributions to its funds and programmes. the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, centred on the united nations, is an integral part of the eu's external policy and is based on the conviction that a multilateral system founded on universal rules and values, which must be respected and observed, is best suited to address global crises, challenges and threats.
‒ the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) is the first international human rights treaty ratified by the eu and has also been signed by 28 eu member states. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union explicitly prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability and guarantees equal participation in society for persons with disabilities. i support the helga stevens report because i think that the european accessibility act is necessary to solve the problems of accessibility for people with reduced mobility in the field of transport, mobility and tourism. i stress the need for cooperation between the member states and the commission to develop a clear and effective directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites, as well as to ensure that the european emergency number 112 is fully accessible and reliable, in particular for deaf and hard of hearing people. regrets that the council has not yet adopted the 2008 proposal for a directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, and that the council should do so as soon as possible;
‒ the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010 as the first regional integration organisation. this is the first (and so far the only) international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified in its entirety. i therefore agree with the report that there is no hierarchy of human rights and that discrimination on the grounds of disability deserves the same kind of response as discrimination on any other grounds, including discrimination on more than one ground, by all member states. this is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly and people with complex support needs, including people with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
‒ the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu and signed by all member states (although only 27 have ratified it). its principles go beyond combating discrimination, aiming at the full enjoyment of human rights by all people with disabilities and their families. the report advocates the full application of the principles of the crpd, making reference to the conditions of persons with disabilities, in particular in terms of inclusion in the educational system, facilitation of conditions for employment or mobility. it also states that the austerity measures and the impoverishment of the population have had very negative consequences, having taken away rights and access to social services that are the support of these people. it is recalled that the un, in its report on the implementation of the convention, warned and expressed concern about the way in which persons with disabilities are treated in portugal, in areas such as justice, health, education, transport or access to an independent life. in this context, this report - with which we agree in substance - is of particular relevance.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european union acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which entered into force in the union legal order on 21 january 2011. the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities covers a wide range of rights which correspond to various spheres of the daily lives of persons with disabilities, the concrete implementation of the protection of certain rights being outside the competence of the union, and it is therefore also for the member states to ensure their correct implementation. accession to the convention implies the obligation to submit periodic reports every four years on its implementation. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this report, as i consider it important to assess the 'state of the art' of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in order to identify potential gaps and to propose solutions to ensure the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities.
‒ the crpd is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu and signed by all member states (although only 27 have ratified it). its principles go beyond combating discrimination, aiming at the full enjoyment of human rights by all people with disabilities and their families. the report advocates the full application of the principles of the crpd, making reference to the conditions of persons with disabilities, in particular in terms of inclusion in the educational system, facilitation of conditions for employment or mobility. it states that austerity measures and the impoverishment of the population have had very negative consequences, having taken away rights and access to social services that are the support of these people. the committee was concerned about the way in which people with disabilities are treated in portugal, in matters ranging from justice, health, education, transport and access to independent living, and about the way in which the crisis has affected the lives of these people. the report is considered to be positive in its substance, which is why it was voted in favour.
‒ the european union acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in december 2010. it was in fact the first international human rights treaty that the eu ratified in its entirety. the crpd has the highest number of signatory countries of any human rights treaty. all 28 eu member states are signatories to the convention and 25 have ratified it. this shows that there can be no hierarchy of human rights and that discrimination on the grounds of disability deserves the same kind of response as discrimination on any other grounds. this is even more relevant when we are talking about women and children with disabilities, the elderly and people with complex support needs, including people with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
‒ the european union (eu) acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in 2010, which was the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu, signed by all member states and ratified by 27. and the importance of implementing the crpd is evident, as there are a large number of disabled citizens living in the eu, as described in the report: some 80 million people, including 46 million women and girls, representing 16% of our total female population. and it is these numbers, which are repeated on a global scale, that make it the convention with the highest number of signatory countries when compared to other human rights treaties. although this convention covers a wide range of rights, some do not fall within the sphere of eu competence and member states should apply it uniformly in their territories. i agree with the rapporteur that there is no hierarchy of human rights and that discrimination on the grounds of disability deserves the same kind of response as discrimination on any other grounds, so i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has been an important step in guaranteeing these rights. discrimination against disabled people is a wrong, and it is therefore advisable to adopt and monitor legislation that promotes equality and condemns discrimination. there are approximately 80 million disabled people in the eu, of whom 46 million are women, and women with disabilities are often victims of multiple forms of discrimination. there must be a genuine commitment to the development of policies and actions that ensure a sound education that helps people with disabilities to develop their skills, fostering positive integration into the labour market. decent work is essential if these people are to have a wage that allows them to enjoy an independent life. i voted in favour because i believe that the eu should strengthen awareness-raising campaigns in the wider community and in the business world, focusing on the potential and contribution to society of the full integration of people with disabilities. the active participation of people with disabilities in the economic and social life of the community is essential to prevent their marginalisation.
‒ the crpd is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu and signed by all member states (although only 27 have ratified it). its principles go beyond combating discrimination, aiming at the full enjoyment of human rights by all people with disabilities and their families. the report advocates the full application of the principles of the crpd, making reference to the conditions of persons with disabilities, in particular in terms of inclusion in the educational system, facilitation of conditions for employment or mobility. it also states that the austerity measures and the impoverishment of the population have had very negative consequences, having taken away rights and access to social services that are the support of these people. the report is considered to be positive in its essence.
‒ i voted in favour of the stevens report because i believe that the full inclusion of people with disabilities is not only a right and a fair benefit for the people concerned, but an asset for society as a whole, because it can benefit from the value and diversity of the skills these people possess. i therefore believe that all disabled people have the right to live in a society in which they have equal opportunities with others, so as to ensure their full inclusion and participation in society. in particular, i would like to highlight in this report the call to the european commission and the council to systematically take into account the needs of persons with disabilities in the context of the revision of regulations on passenger rights in different modes of transport, as the eu has committed itself to in the european disability strategy 2010-2020, which aims to create a barrier-free europe.
in writing. ‒ i agree that energy drinks should not be labelled as 'helping to increase alertness' and 'improving concentration' because this labelling could encourage young people to consume these sugary drinks which are associated with sleep and behavioural problems in children and adolescents. adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers: 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume these drinks. a 250 ml can can contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine. the world health organisation (who) recommends that adults and children should not get more than 10% of their daily energy intake from free sugars and that a reduction to less than 5% (about 25 g) per day would have additional health benefits. i also agree that member states should consider introducing rules on the marketing of high-caffeine drinks or foods with added caffeine to children and adolescents.
‒ this resolution objects to an initiative by the european commission to amend regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health. by january 2009, the commission should have established the specific nutritional profiles to be met by foods or certain categories of foods in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims, as well as the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims in relation to nutritional profiles. the commission has submitted a draft regulation which contains claims that caffeine contributes to enhancing vigilance status and to improving concentration. it is therefore considered that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, which states that 'nutrition and health claims should not [...] encourage or justify the excessive consumption of a given food'. the european food safety authority concluded that there is not enough information to establish a safe level of caffeine consumption for children. the problems are mainly related to the consumption of energy drinks by adolescents. we voted in favour.
‒ in writing. pursuant to article 10 (1) of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, health claims made on foods are prohibited unless authorised by the commission in accordance with this regulation and included in a list of permitted claims. under that regulation, the commission should have established by january 2009 the specific nutritional profiles to be met by foods or categories of foods in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims, and the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims with regard to the nutritional profiles, in particular with regard to the caffeine content of energy drinks. according to the opinion prepared by the european food safety authority, there is not enough information to determine a safe level of caffeine consumption for children and adolescents. however, they account for about 25% of all consumers who consume two or more cans, which is associated with problems such as headaches and sleep disturbances. i am voting in favour of this because i believe that this proposal for a regulation should be revised to restrict the access of children and adolescents to energy drinks.
‒ the commission has presented a draft regulation which contains claims that caffeine contributes to enhancing vigilance and to improving concentration. it is therefore considered that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, which states that 'nutrition and health claims should not [...] encourage or justify the excessive consumption of a given food'. by january 2009, the commission should have established the specific nutritional profiles to be met by foods or certain categories of foods in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims, as well as the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims in relation to nutritional profiles. the european food safety authority concluded that there is not enough information to establish a safe level of caffeine consumption for children. the problems are mainly related to the consumption of energy drinks by adolescents. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the objection to the draft commission regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods, as it is against labelling which could mislead consumers. claims that caffeine contributes to increased alertness and concentration cannot be used in foods intended for children and adolescents. it is recalled that in its scientific opinion on the safety of caffeine, the european food safety authority concluded that there is not enough information to establish a safe level of caffeine consumption for children, but that this daily consumption would probably correspond to 3 mg per kilogram of body weight. for example, a 250 ml can of an energy drink may contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine. i therefore disagree with the idea that energy drinks can be labelled as healthy, especially when 18% of children consume them regularly.
mr president, at a time when the application of minimum wage legislation in the transport sector is being debated, it should be noted at the outset that the application of minimum wages levelled by member states with stronger economies, such as france and germany, will necessarily imply economically disadvantageous and even unfair conditions for those other less robust economies or even under financial intervention. i would remind you that according to eurostat in 2014, gdp per capita in germany was eur 35 200, in france eur 32 400, while in my country, portugal, it was eur 16 600. this means that the attempt to impose national minimum wage rules on all crossborder transport activities will necessarily lead to increased losses for transport companies, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, whose competitiveness will be particularly affected, and will also impede the proper functioning of the internal market. i believe that the provisions of the german and french laws will make it difficult to enjoy the freedoms of the internal market, because, in addition to what i have already said, it will also impose a disproportionate bureaucratic and administrative burden on transport operators. commissioner, for all this i want to commend your work and your commitment to the resolution... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members very much for all their comments. i have listened very carefully and we have noted every single comment. i can assure you that we will take these comments into account when we proceed with our work. i would also like to thank you for showing some understanding about the complexity of the issue that we have on the table and of course the sensitive nature of the topic. this is what we need to take into account as well. i would like to stress once more that the establishment of national minimum pay rates is considered by the commission as a very positive development. we fully understand the objective of the social protection of workers pursued by the german and french authorities. but of course the national measures should not be misused. this is our core message. while protecting workers effectively, they need to respect eu law so as to preserve the proper functioning of the internal market with all the benefits it brings across the eu. let me stress that the commission sent a letter of formal notice to germany in may 2015 challenging the systematic application of the german minimum wage to all international transport operations and transit. since then, the commission has been engaged in a dialogue with the german authorities to reach a satisfactory solution without the need for further procedures. this is by far the best possible approach. i was really hoping we would find a solution during the process, but we have exhausted this possibility and we are now moving on with legal proceedings. the administrative burdens related to the notification and controlling requirements imposed on foreign operators constitute one of the aspects that have been analysed in the letter of formal notice. in the pursuit of constant improvement, we will seek to find appropriate measures to create efficient, safe and socially responsible road transport services where people are at the heart of eu transport policy. this is the ambitious and challenging goal ahead and we must all do our utmost to contribute to its achievement. this will be the line that the commission will follow when preparing the 2017 road initiatives. one of its aims will be to enhance the proper enforcement of the existing eu social rules, as well. please let us not forget our core objective – the core objective of the eu – which is a single market, the basic foundation on which the european union is built. i would really like to make sure that, while ensuring the necessary social protection of workers, i also preserve the integrity of, and even further deepen, the single market.
mr president, when a point of order is requested, the presidency is obliged to respect the rules of procedure. i know mr. president is in a hurry to go to the euro game today, but rest assured that next sunday my team will send yours home.
i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak on behalf of the gue/ngl group. at a time when we have 125 million poor people and 30 million unemployed in the european union, it would hardly be justified to leave this debate aside from the debate on this oral question, which has been postponed until thursday afternoon. the proposal is therefore that the debate can be combined with the debates on the two documents which will be presented and discussed in the morning, and then, as an alternative, the oral question on culture will be discussed in the afternoon.
mr president, commissioner, the creation of the single energy market does not serve any other purpose than that pursued in other areas, namely to defend the interests and the profit motive of the major european economic groups in the sector, to promote monopolistic concentration on a european scale. with more or less flourishing social and environmental interests, the legislative process is reproducing the specifications of these interests, either in terms of the ambitious integration of markets or in terms of infrastructure development, the latter supported by instruments such as the juncker plan, which puts public resources in the pockets of large private economic groups, which now control strategic infrastructure. only with democratic public control of the energy sector, which means public ownership and management of production and distribution companies, can we answer burning questions such as energy efficiency, diversification, the advance of renewables, security of supply, among others. even the question of interconnections must be considered in this context.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs mihaylova on the final document on european territorial cooperation. indeed, we have made improvements in connectivity, mobility, accessibility, knowledge transfer, the creation of new partnerships and risk management in disaster response. portugal was ravaged by fires, and more than a hundred thousand hectares were burned. in my region - madeira, an outermost region - almost 6,000 hectares have burned and the fire has reached the city centre of funchal, consuming some 23% of its territory. we had 1,000 displaced and 500 homeless, three people died and we now have 23% of our territory in the capital of madeira burned. the losses amount to eur 61 million. 54% of the total area burned in the european union was in portugal. how long does the commission think it will take to help my country? i cannot but thank the countries that have helped us - italy and spain, as well as morocco and russia. we will support this report by calling for greater respect for the regions, those which are structurally disadvantaged, by giving space to local and regional power, particularly through the iti and the clld. in this sense, i still do not understand the commission's persistence in threatening portugal with sanctions through european funds, which strongly affect the country and its regions.
mr president, i am speaking at a time when the european commission is continuing its unacceptable blackmail of portugal and its people. recognising the failure of all austerity plans that have not solved either the problems of the economy or the problems of public finances, the portuguese people decided, in october 2015, in a democratic way, to interrupt the infernal cycle of troika policies that have sunk the country. since then, portugal has gone from being the exemplary pupil of brussels to being the target of all the blackmail, which now includes the cutting of structural funds. this shows the true nature of this european union, which is not at all concerned with cohesion and the correction of national and regional disparities. instead of acknowledging the failure of its policies, not only in portugal but in most member states, the european commission now intends to punish the countries hit by austerity even more, further worsening the european garrote and jeopardizing all the possibilities of reviving our economy. that's too bad.
madam president, it is essential to promote stability in these regions and to contribute to better management of migration. however, as has already been said here, only 4.5% of the commitments made by the member states have been implemented. as early as 2005, the european union and its member states also committed to increasing official development assistance to 0.7% of the gross national income of the european union by 2015. as a whole, we continue to fail that goal: that commitment has now been extended to 2030. the european union must tackle the migration crisis and invest in improving the living conditions of people in the poorest countries, not relying on fears of hunger and barbed wire to keep migrants at europe's borders. we must also be vigilant against any misuse of this money by strengthening the european parliament's supervisory role. european taxpayers would not understand if this fund were to strengthen dictators and despots, but this should not be confused with aid and solidarity to third countries.
madam president, the migrants who try to set foot on european soil every day and those who die crossing the mediterranean are like stones thrown in the face of the european union - stones that remind it of the responsibilities it has had and still has in the underdevelopment, interference, destabilisation and war that are at the origin of the migratory flows. in view of this, the european union, after the shameful agreement with turkey, wants to extend to african countries the policy of outsourcing borders and managing migration flows, in accordance with the interests and labour needs of large european capital. this is a shame, especially when development aid policy is made conditional on acceptance of the european union's migration policy and submission to its principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to get to the bottom of the causes of the migratory flow implies a profound change in the european union's policies and guidelines and genuine and strengthened development cooperation, respecting the sovereignty and the right to development of african countries.
in writing. the use of the eu emergency trust fund to combat irregular migration to the eu is a disastrous and inhumane policy, which funds undemocratic and brutally repressive regimes, such as those in ethiopia and sudan, and which are, in fact, the main causes of migration flows to europe. refugees and migrants flee wars, political persecution and tyranny, economic misrule and lack of opportunity caused by oppressive kleptocracies. the financing of corrupt and authoritarian regimes to create fences and barriers to control people and intensify the suffocation in which they live betrays our values and principles, is an ineffective and unsustainable policy, and a shameful waste of european taxpayers' money. the only way for the eu to have an effective migration management policy is to adopt a strategy to promote democracy, peace and conflict resolution and to help build inclusive institutions that open up opportunities and genuine development and give people hope. europe which allows itself to be blackmailed and manipulated by oppressive governments loses credibility and destroys itself.
madam president, decades of neoliberal policies, the imposition of austerity policies, impoverishment and exploitation by governments and the european union mean serious social setbacks which have resulted in 125 million poor people, 30 million unemployed and growing inequality in the distribution of wealth. policies that have crushed workers' rights and social gains, that have attacked collective bargaining, that have imposed the devaluation of wages, the deregulation of working hours, precariousness and the destruction and privatization of the public provision of family support services; class options, such as the abandonment of the maternity directive or leave that is not paid 100%, where they exist; the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks related to carcinogens and to the risks associated with carcinogens and to the risks associated with carcinogens and to the risks associated with carcinogens and to the risks associated with carcinogens.
madam president, in portugal the path towards the return of rights and incomes to workers and pensioners and the reversal of some of the most negative aspects of the previous government's policy, although far short of what is necessary, this path, although modest and limited, irrevocably clashes with the requirements of the european union. the intention is clear to implode any political solution that calls into question the dominant political orientation, the same one that has brought europe, and in particular the eurozone, to an unprecedented crisis. this is the meaning of the intolerable sanctions process opened against portugal and the blackmail associated with it regarding the suspension of funds, aimed at conditioning the discussion and the preparation of the state budget for 2017. it is not surprising, it only makes clearer the need to break with impositions and blackmail, the need to recover monetary sovereignty, a currency of its own, a central bank detached from the ecb, financial, exchange rate and budgetary management adjusted to the needs of the country, along with a renegotiation of debt, deadlines, interest and amounts and the recovery of public control over the banking sector.
madam president, this g20 meeting is yet another is a real hymn to hypocrisy. the g20 countries, which account for more than 80% of the world's wealth, are puzzled by the disastrous results of their policies and are proposing another attempt to square the circle. in this way, economic growth, deregulation of international trade and climate issues are being tried to reconcile, all duly wrapped up with social justice. of course these pious statements may fool many people for a time, but they cannot fool everyone forever. financial instability, corruption, social inequalities and global warming are just some of the many faces of neoliberal policies in the service of big international capital. it will not be two or three or even twenty rich countries that will solve the problems of humanity, it will be the peoples who are fighting to build a progressive and anti-capitalist alternative capable of responding to the serious problems of the planet for the benefit of the workers and the peoples and not for the benefit of a small handful of multi-millionaires.
madam president, commissioner, even if these summits do not produce the immediate solutions that the world needs, it is important that the great powers should at least be able to agree on a correct diagnosis of the main problems facing the world. at this summit, the g20 leaders realized that the world is facing a return of nationalist and protectionist discourses. seduced by such talk, the populations of various countries are pointing to globalization as the main culprit of the labour and social difficulties affecting them. in their final communiqué, the g20 leaders set out to fight protectionism and remove obstacles to international trade and investment, while recognising, importantly, that globalisation is not a homogeneous phenomenon. in developing countries and emerging economies, globalization has been linked in recent years to progress in poverty reduction, increasing life expectancy and reducing infant mortality, among others. but in developed countries, it has had some adverse effects in terms of, for example, job insecurity and tax evasion. the final communiqué recognises the benefits of globalisation and that these must be widely shared. but a communiqué is no substitute for a plan, and there has been no clear commitment to global regulatory measures that can neutralize the difficulties that globalization has also brought about and restart growth.
madam president, the statements by the leaders and the official communiqués of the recent g20 summit indicated a good diagnosis of the problems affecting the current framework of deregulated globalisation. they also show a good understanding of solutions, reinforcing the growth agenda, increasing transparency, ensuring territorial equity in the impact on economic relations, addressing the issues that multiply refugee crises and unsustainable migratory flows, fighting terrorism and responding to the challenges of climate change. in a world where inequalities are deepening and people are increasingly exploited, the agenda proclaimed by the g20 increases the responsibility of those who subscribe to it. it must be put into practice, and that is why we in the european union must set an example by putting these priorities on our agenda. this raises expectations of the speech which the president of the commission will make here tomorrow. after the policies of blind austerity have impoverished and weakened the union, the populist and nationalist vultures now fly over their possible prey. but when we look at the g20 agenda, we see that this is an agenda that only a united, cooperative and supportive european union can win. the path is clear, we have committed ourselves to a path. let's make it happen then.
the international press has given further coverage to this g20 meeting, highlighting the attempt it makes to solve the problem of squaring the circle. or, to put it another way, the g20 wants to "civilize capitalism". let it go. economic growth, deregulation of international trade and capital movements, climate, social justice - these are some of the ingredients of the g20's cuisine, which basically seeks to cure the sick by injecting them with a generous dose of the disease-causing agent. the result can't be any different than what we have. the pious statements that have been echoed by the g20, let us not forget the poignant appeals against the siren song of 'protectionism', may fool many people for a while, but they cannot fool everyone forever. financial instability, corruption, social inequalities and the environmental degradation of the planet are just some of the many faces of neoliberal policies in the service of big international capital. it will not be two or three or even 20 rich countries that will solve the problems of mankind. it will be the peoples who are fighting to build a progressive, anti-capitalist alternative capable of responding to the serious problems of the planet, for the benefit of the workers and the peoples and not for the benefit of a small handful of multi-millionaires.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, most european countries are facing serious air quality problems today, particularly in cities where there is a high density of road traffic. it is also in urban centres that most of europe's citizens live and work, and are thus exposed to the harmful effects of air pollution, which is a real threat to public health. according to data from the european environment agency this year, more than 70 000 people die prematurely in the european union as a result of high levels of nitric oxide in the atmosphere. we also know that road traffic, and in particular diesel engines, are the predominant sources of these gases in urban areas. in view of the difficulties of the municipalities in tackling the problem of air quality, what do we see at european policy level? we are witnessing a european commission that can at least be described as inoperative, dysfunctional and lacking in action. the european citizen sees it as a hostage to a pretended and illusory industrial competitiveness which is being sought dishonestly and fraudulently by some of the major players in the automobile industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but will we really get there that way? let's focus on technological innovation, let's look to meet the needs of citizens for a better quality of life in cities, let's focus on more sustainable and more efficient urban transport, let's focus on renewables and cleaner and cheaper electric mobility, and let's look at what others, our competitors, are doing right now. it is a shame that we were not able to detect and act on the fuel emissions fraud and that others did it for us. let us also look at the speed with which the americans have taken responsibility and taken action to ensure that the legitimate interests of consumers are protected. it is important that the inquiry committee be able to restore the truth about this whole process. the minimum that can be demanded of the european commission is that it be diligent in its cooperation with parliament in the search for the truth. it is above all important to know what will change to ensure effective monitoring and implementation of european legislation. we should put citizens first, but that's not what we saw during this process. this is not the europe we want to build.
mr president, commissioner, it is in the interests of europeans, their industry, their centres of knowledge and their citizens that the european union should take a leading role in the transition to smart mobility. smart mobility saves lives, improves quality of life and opens up new prospects for competitiveness. in this area, emis has already had a very positive impact. after it, the european institutions and the member states will have to step out of their comfort zone, they will have to take on effective monitoring responsibilities, they will have to disseminate transparent and credible information to consumers and they will have to take advantage of existing knowledge, notably in the joint research centre. after the european union too, emission measurement methodologies and technologies associated with the automotive sector in the european union and beyond will no longer be the same. faced with evidence of fraudulent manipulation, the authorities have taken a leap in technology. commissioner, that is important, but it is not enough. the culture that has allowed the potential fraud under assessment must be eradicated. this is the path that this interim report reflects and that the inquiry committee continues to follow in a robust manner.
‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are a key driver for knowledge-based economic growth, for increasing the eu's innovation capacity and for building a cohesion policy based on the europe 2020 objectives. as such, they are an ex ante condition for member states and regions to benefit from the european structural and investment funds (esif), which leads to the design of an ris3 strategy in each of the regions, which is a positive development. i share the concern about the need to reduce red tape in order to speed up the implementation of the strategies and the need to ensure that they are continuously reviewed, given the constant developments in this area. i stress that the implementation of these strategies should seek to promote interregional cooperation, also promoting synergies between eu research infrastructures, in the context of cohesion policy 2014-2020. the full implementation of the urban agenda, focusing on the creation of smart cities, should be a priority, as should the areas of renewable energy, the digital agenda or public health, as per the swot analysis of each region. i therefore support the report.
‒ ris3 strategies are a valuable tool to bridge the innovation gap and boost jobs and growth in europe. public authorities should try to pay particular attention to the monitoring and review of strategies in order to maximise their results on the one hand and interregional cooperation on the other, with the aim of developing ambitious projects that create added value for the economy. the organisation of a european-wide conference and the development of a policy guidance document incorporating the main lessons learned from experience in this area are very useful tools for continuous improvement.
‒ the european regional development fund (erdf), in support of thematic objective 1, has established that regions should channel their rdi (research, development and innovation) investments through smart specialisation strategies in the 2014-2020 programming period. therefore, ris3 are an ex ante condition for eu member states and regions to benefit from the european structural and investment funds. all european regions have an ris3 strategy in place. these strategies were shaped and started to be implemented during 2014 and 2015. although the report relates to the dimension of meeting eu objectives (in particular through the eu 2020 strategy, which we reject), the logic of centring rdi strategies on member states and regional and local bodies allows for a more realistic definition of needs and more sustained development prospects (not imposed, the logic seems to be that the achievement of the local objective can contribute to the overall objective). the mobilisation of structural and investment funds linked to social and territorial cohesion, in the context of a ris approach, could contribute to investment in economic dynamism, particularly in support of smes, which, especially in the context of the economic depression imposed by austerity and neoliberal asphyxiation policies, seems positive.
‒ in this time of economic, financial and social crisis, the eu must step up its efforts towards smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. it is necessary for stakeholders to develop ris3 based on the analysis of the capacities, resources and competences of each region, with the aim of identifying emerging niches or comparative advantages for smart specialisation, avoiding forced and artificial over-specialisation and reinforcing a stronger partnership between the public and private sectors, while avoiding possible conflicts of interest between the public and private sectors. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i agree with the rapporteur that in this era of economic recession and consequently of budgetary scarcity and increasingly tough competition at world level, it is crucial for the eu to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable way. i believe that ris3 strategies are a valuable mechanism to reduce innovation asymmetries and boost jobs and growth in europe. i argue that ris3 strategies must be continuously adapted, since innovation is constantly evolving and it is therefore vital that strategies are subject to continuous review. i believe that simplification and reduction of bottlenecks in administrative procedures are essential to ensure the proper implementation and effective implementation of the strategies. for these reasons, and because it identifies smart specialisation strategies as valuable tools for meeting the challenges in the eu, this report deserves my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is increasingly important to focus on sustainable innovation as a way of coping with the shortage of budgetary resources and competition at a global level. the ris3 strategies, because of their importance in the contribution of cohesion policy to the europe 2020 objectives, should be the result of constant review. as innovation is constantly evolving, it is also important to highlight the areas on which strategies should focus, by analysing the priorities, strengths and potential of each region, by regular quantitative and qualitative monitoring, by creating synergies between public and private actors, and by reducing bottlenecks in administrative procedures, by giving advice to regions to define and focus their strategies. innovation should be used to strengthen the administrative capacity of public authorities, especially at local and regional level, by using new technologies and streamlining procedures to better serve the public. it is essential that regions develop their innovative ideas and work together to avoid duplication of effort and misuse of resources.
in writing. ‒ in an era of economic recession and budgetary constraints, as well as increasingly tough global competition, it is crucial for the eu to sustainably improve its innovation capacity in terms of research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. we will have to pay particular attention to the continuous review of these same strategies; analysing priorities, strengths and potential of each region; developing participation processes; creating synergies between public and private actors; coordinating between all levels of government and departments and identifying alternative funding routes and finally simplifying and reducing administrative procedures.
‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are an ex ante conditionality for the allocation of funding through the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). in fact, ris3 strategies support the thematic concentration objectives and the strategic programming of the esi funds by promoting their 'performance orientation'. this report, which analysed the relationship/inclusion of these strategies within the framework of cohesion policy, reflects parliament's position on them within the framework of the current multiannual financial framework, demonstrating parliament's support for the implementation 'on the ground' of ris3 strategies, calling for their further development and a process of lifelong learning with projects already approved or under implementation, simplification of procedures and greater coordination in the implementation of current programmes. the report, which i voted for, stresses that ris3 strategies are not exclusively aimed at the more developed regions. on the contrary, they are intended to be a smart, innovative and effective means of enhancing the strengths and opportunities of the less developed regions, creating synergies with a view to developing a more knowledge-based economy, creating value and added value for the population.
‒ cohesion policy is the hallmark of the european union, reflecting the practice of solidarity which underpins its construction. cohesion policy serves as a catalyst for national public policies aimed at fostering economic development and growth, employment opportunities, more and better education and social inclusion. this is particularly relevant in regions of europe where there are greater social, economic and territorial disparities and where, inevitably, there is less resilience to economic crisis situations. the outermost regions are part of this context. i therefore call for cohesion policy to remain part of the eu's political priorities and for it to be adequately funded. i oppose any attempt to penalise member states suffering from major macroeconomic imbalances by suspending policy instruments with an impact on cohesion, which are precisely the key to boosting investment, the economy and job creation. the possibility of suspending the structural funds implies a double penalty which follows a logic which departs from the principle of solidarity which is the foundation of the union and which is closer to a strategy of absolute strangulation of economies suffering from additional fragility. this is a logic i can only repudiate.
‒ in a period of economic recession, and as a result of the constraints of the euro, it should be crucial for the eu to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable way. in practice, none of this happens. cohesion policy is also becoming a factor in promoting asymmetries. in fact, today it is the rich countries that absorb research aid and the poor countries that get the esf crumbs to undermine the austerity figures. portugal trains thousands of researchers who have migrated to other countries because of the discontinuity of research projects. these are crimes we are committing, the consequences of which will last for many years.
‒ i voted in favour of the valcárcel siso report, as i believe that the proposals put forward for smart specialisation strategies contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives through sustainable knowledge-based growth, balanced development and the creation of high-quality jobs. i would like to highlight the role of the s3 platform, set up by the commission's dg regio and located in the seville jrc, which plays a key role in advising regions and setting benchmarks for their innovation strategies, in strengthening governance at various levels and in synergies between regions by providing information, methodologies, expertise and advice to national and regional policy-makers. i also believe that the seville s3 platform should pay particular attention to the less developed regions and should in particular help them to shape and guide their strategies.
mr president, we recognize the potential of territorial cooperation. a significant part of the european population lives in crossborder areas and these crossborder regions are, in turn, mostly depressed regions, almost always suffering from the problems inherent in inlandness and remoteness from the major centres. we regret, however, all the propaganda surrounding the successive interreg programmes, as if it were possible to do something tangible with just a few crumbs. it is perhaps no coincidence that there is no objective assessment of the impact of 25 years of territorial cooperation. there is no known visible impact on the socioeconomic development of these regions, let alone on cross-border permeability, either in trade or in the sharing of infrastructure. but our criticisms extend to cohesion policy at the global level, which is of course extended to territorial cooperation. this cohesion policy, which has been substantially cut in the current multiannual framework, is unfortunately increasingly a mirage and increasingly in the wake of the neoliberal agendas of the european union. cohesion policy is nowadays conditioned not by the needs of the regions and local development strategies, but rather by the neoliberal agenda of the european union. the most serious policy, cohesion policy, in practice tends to become a factor in promoting asymmetries, when we see that the funds intended to support innovation are centralised in the richer countries of the north, and the funds intended to support long-term unemployment are drained to the south with the aim of mitigating the consequences of the liberalization policies imposed by the european union. it is urgent to put an end to this situation by breaking with this model and striving for a new europe of peace and cooperation. if we really want social and territorial cohesion, we challenge the european institutions to double the budget for cohesion and to change their image completely, so as to give the regions freedom to choose their development strategies according to their characteristics, and then, yes, we can really fight regional asymmetries.
‒ european territorial cooperation (etc) comprises the crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation dimensions and is one of the two objectives of cohesion policy. the significant financial dimension of interreg for the period 2014-2020 (eur 10,1 billion), which in addition to these dimensions includes the co-financing of regional development cooperation programmes outside the eu, attests to its importance, but also to the need to de-bureaucratize and streamline processes in order to concentrate resources on priority objectives, strengthen the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy and improve the economic, social and territorial potential of regions by integrating their sectoral policies. i believe that in the 25 years of interreg, best practices in the areas of financial guidance in the areas of connectivity, mobility and accessibility; support for innovation and science; increasing the competitiveness of smes; preventing natural disasters; promoting inclusive growth based on employment, education and training; and sustainable management of environmental and energy resources should be brought together. i support the call for better coordination of the etc's financing mechanisms with the strategic and investment funds, eliminating overlaps and ensuring governance that is more consistent with the objectives of territorial cohesion. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ currently, 28 member states benefit from the etc. the amount allocated to the tec is eur 10.1 billion: 74.1% for crossborder cooperation - 60 programmes, 20.4% for transnational cooperation - 15 programmes and 5.6% for interregional cooperation - 4 programmes. interreg also co-finances regional development cooperation programmes outside the eu: crossborder cooperation programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (242 million specifically for crossborder cooperation) and 16 crossborder cooperation programmes under the european neighbourhood instrument (634 million specifically for crossborder cooperation). i agree, therefore, that cte has a great leverage effect.
in writing. our position on european territorial cooperation (etc) has been critical, based on the understanding that it pursues the objective of overcoming the remaining obstacles to the functioning of the eu's single market, in particular those related to the obstacles to the free movement of goods and the migration of workers between countries, based not on their interests and aspirations (and taking advantage of the hardship of life imposed on them), but on the labour needs of capital. the eec does not correspond to cooperation based on mutual benefit, solidarity and based on the sovereignty and complementary interests of the countries involved, with which we would undoubtedly agree, but rather with the intention of hindering what they consider to be the sovereign and national development models. cooperation and integration are a reality and a necessity enhanced by the development of the productive forces, particularly technological and scientific development. this report, emphasising the issue of financial instruments and giving priority to public-private partnerships, notes that, as in other cases, tax cooperation is being promoted with a view to facilitating the concentration and centralisation of (monopolistic) capital throughout the eu.
‒ the overall objective of the etc is to reduce the influence of national borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, reduce remaining obstacles to investment and cooperation-based work across national borders, strengthen cohesion and promote harmonious economic, social, cultural and territorial development throughout the union. so we have to keep finding the best practices to achieve the goals we set. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ interreg, set up in 1990, was developed as a community initiative with a budget of eur 1 billion, covering exclusively crossborder cooperation and benefiting 11 member states. it was later extended to transnational and interregional cooperation. in 2015, european territorial cooperation (etc) was highlighted as an important cohesion policy instrument, designed to address problems that transcend administrative borders and require common solutions. the etc has numerous examples of the benefits in the following best practices: overcoming border challenges in transport and people movement, supporting smart transport solutions and multimodal transport hubs; simplifying cross-border travel; improving interconnectivity with a focus on road infrastructure; improving maritime accessibility by improving regional ports; specialised services such as healthcare for older people; cross-border health solutions; investment plan for building structures for older people to keep them active in society and to provide them with as healthy and fulfilling lives as possible, among others. i agree with the rapporteur that the management and implementation of the etc programmes should be made less bureaucratic. i support the importance of the etc as a vital instrument for the process of european integration.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the etc, through its results orientation, makes a significant contribution to improving the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions by reflecting and integrating various sectoral policies at the territorial level and by transcending national borders, also affecting municipalities and regions on an individual basis. the desire to overcome frontier challenges has enabled smes to participate in concrete innovative activities: networking between companies, knowledge institutes and service providers, access to cutting-edge technologies to test product ideas, use appropriate manufacturing techniques and market their products worldwide, tourism development, among others. the etc has also enabled joint responses to environmental problems such as joint monitoring of watersheds, better use of marine resources and by-products, creating artificial reefs to improve biodiversity, joint cooperation in harmonising activities on flood prevention and water quality improvement and improving spatial planning and risk management in the alpine area, as well as addressing other environmental challenges such as coastal pollution, forest fire risk and improved monitoring of ports, etc.
in writing. ‒ since 1990, interreg - the genesis of european territorial cooperation (etc) - has been developed with the aim of promoting crossborder cooperation, benefiting 11 member states, and has subsequently been extended to transnational and interregional cooperation. in the previous multiannual financial framework (mff), the etc demonstrated its effectiveness in serving the objectives of cohesion policy as a programme designed to solve problems that go beyond administrative borders - but which require common solutions, involving several member states or even third countries. in this mff, the etc has been restructured to become more targeted and efficient. the aim was also to make the use of investments more effective through thematic concentration and result orientation. it is thus seen that the etc contributes significantly to the improvement of the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions by reflecting and integrating diverse sectoral policies at the territorial level and by promoting cross-border/transnational as well as interregional cooperation. recognising the importance of the etc in the strategic areas mentioned and considering that the report shows in a systematic and quite clear way its added value, best practices, support for research and innovation and its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ these new european territorial cooperation practices are essentially designed to strengthen, promote and favour the actions of the territorial space of the member states of the european union in transnational and interregional collaboration. this transnational and interregional cooperation immediately benefits the macro-regions and cross-border areas, immediately increasing their level of integration and economic and social cohesion in the european strategic area. the importance of public-private partnerships should also be stressed in order to harmonise these good cooperation practices, facilitating political and economic issues. clearly, this will have to be accompanied by ensuring transparency and correctness in all planning, approaches and procedures.
in the light of the findings of the court of justice, the commission has concluded that the contested decision does not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the objective of this interim report of the emis commission is to provide an overview of the activities of the commission since its establishment on 2 march 2016 and an outlook on the next work plan for the first half of the commission's mandate. i congratulate the commission on meeting the deadline for the presentation of this preliminary report and on setting up a website where members and the public can obtain all relevant information relating to the commission's activities, thus helping to make the commission's work as transparent as possible, without prejudice, where necessary, to the preservation of confidentiality.
‒ this interim report provides a clear picture of how car manufacturers were able to claim that their cars pollute far less than they do in real driving conditions. the same document says that the european commission is struggling to address the growing discrepancy between emissions in driving conditions and those generated in test cycles and that member states have not been supportive or rigorous in implementing and enforcing legislation on car emissions. so this is a good opportunity to improve the tests.
in writing. on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector following the volkswagen scandal. a scandal that confirms the promiscuity between political and economic power in the eu. the emis commission was established on 2 march 2016 and its mandate is to submit an interim report within the first 6 months and a final report within 12 months of the start of its work. the work of the emis committee of inquiry is still ongoing and several hearings of different witnesses and experts have already been held and will continue during the autumn period. this interim report does not contain any findings or recommendations. in the report, the committee asks for support for its work from the conference of presidents and the bureau of parliament, the european commission and the authorities of the member states, in a transparent manner, in compliance with the principle of cooperation. having supported the establishment of this committee and supporting its continuation in office, we again express our reservations about the scope and practical consequences of its work.
‒ immediate support and full transparency in supporting the work of the committee of inquiry must be ensured, while fully respecting the principle of sincere cooperation, by providing all possible technical and political support, including through more rapid submission of the required documentation. the full cooperation of the relevant current commissioners and directors-general, as well as those who have served in previous terms, is essential for the success of this commission of inquiry. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the committee of inquiry into the automotive industry did not hesitate to examine several business areas in order to further the ongoing investigation. in this respect, it sent several questionnaires to member states, union institutions and other bodies and opened a public call for evidence on its website. i am voting in favour of this report and i believe that we must move towards an electric car industry which contributes to the sustainability of cities and to the improvement of the living conditions of all citizens.
‒ the aim of the report is to give a succinct overview of the activities of the emis commission since its establishment, as well as to provide an outlook on the next work plan for the first half of the mandate. on 17 december 2015, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of community law relating to emission measurements in the automotive sector, without prejudice to the powers conferred on national or union courts. in addition, the emis commission is called upon to collect and analyse information to verify whether the commission and the member states have evidence of the use of manipulation mechanisms, and to collect and analyse information on enforcement. the emis coordinators adopted the emis meeting schedule for 2016, taking into account the need to limit overlap with the standing committees and agreed to limit the number of committee missions to the minimum necessary, request a thorough review of the legal obligations regarding emission measurement in the eu automotive sector, among other measures. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. in december 2015, following the so-called 'automotive emissions scandal', the european parliament set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of community law relating to the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector (without prejudice to the powers of national or european union courts). this interim report stresses the importance of the successful implementation of the planned evaluation actions, and for this the committee of inquiry should continue its work in order to be able to fully fulfil the obligations it has been entrusted with in the context of its mandate. in addition, the european commission, the member states, through their governments, national parliaments and competent authorities, should also ensure that the work of the committee of inquiry is supported, in full respect of the principle of sincere cooperation and by providing all possible technical and political support. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector following the volkswagen scandal. the emis committee was set up on 2 march 2016 and its mandate provides for the committee of inquiry to submit an interim report within the first 6 months and a final report within 12 months of the start of its work. the work of the emis committee of inquiry is still ongoing and several hearings of different witnesses and experts have already been held and will continue during the autumn period. this interim report therefore does not contain any findings or recommendations. we stress the need for further support in full respect of the principle of cooperation as laid down in union legislation, facilitating access to all relevant documentation, thus giving full meaning to the european parliament's monitoring function.
‒ i voted in favour of the zalba and gerbrandy report because i agree with the general outline of this interim report which lists the activities of the emis committee of inquiry, of which i am a full member. in fact, as an active member of this committee of inquiry, in addition to the need to eradicate the culture that has allowed potential fraud, i have been confirming the inevitability of the european union taking a leading role in the transition to smart mobility. this technological transition is in the interests of europeans, their industry and their knowledge centres, as it saves lives, improves the quality of life and opens up new prospects for competitiveness.
‒ in the criminal proceedings initiated at the central district court of pest, istván ujhelyi was charged with the crime of defamation. according to the court's judgment, the facts giving rise to the criminal proceedings are as follows: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the facts of the case, as stated in the request for waiver of immunity and in the hearing of istván ujhelyi, indicate that the statements were made when he was not yet a member of the european parliament. i agree with the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi.
‒ this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is based on a pending case before the central district court of pest. the case concerns a crime of defamation relating to statements made by istván ujhelyi about a person in hungary, in particular saying that he was unfit to hold a certain public office because of his relations with criminals. these statements were made when mr ujhelyi was still a member of the hungarian national parliament and not of the european parliament. the statements under investigation do not relate to opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, which means that the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 does not apply. as such, and in the light of the facts, we vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, the central district court of pest requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, istván ujhelyi, in proceedings pending before that court. the request of the court concerns a criminal case brought for the crime of defamation, related to statements made by istván ujhelyi about a person in hungary. the charges against istván ujhelyi are not related to opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament and that therefore the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 does not apply, so i voted in favour of lifting his immunity.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ on 26 november 2014 lodged an application with the pest district court for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of istván újhelyi. the request is based on statements made by the member on a local television programme. újhelyi allegedly played a leading role in a series of statements and accusations against tamás sneider, which are punishable under the hungarian criminal code as the crime of defamation. the statements in question were allegedly made on 25 april 2014, before the elections for the current legislature of the european parliament, which resulted in the election of istván ujhelyi as a member of the european parliament. i would like to point out that the facts indicate that the statements were made when he was not yet a member of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs.
‒ in the proceedings before the central district court of pest, istván ujhelyi was charged with the crime of defamation. according to the court's judgment, the facts giving rise to the criminal proceedings are as follows: in the programme egyenes beszéd (conversa franca) on 25 april 2014, istván ujhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of tamás sneider for vice-president of the hungarian parliament, referring to the fact that he stated that he had a disagreement with a gypsy mafia member and hit him with i don't know what kind of instruments, baseball bats and that everyone else says that he was the local head of a mafia-type organization, an organization of scalp-heads. the statements in question were made on 25 april 2014, before the 2014 european parliament elections, which resulted in the election of istván ujhelyi as member of the european parliament. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mr istván ujhelyi.
‒ the charges against istván ujhelyi are not related to opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr ujhelyi. the request was made by the central district court of pest, dated 26 november 2014, and concerns a case pending in that court in connection with an alleged crime of defamation, of which istván ujhelyi was charged pursuant to article 226 (1) of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. since this is allegedly conduct outside his mandate as a member of the european parliament (istan ujhelyi was, at the time of the events which gave rise to this case, a member of the national parliament) and there is no reason to believe that there are intentions underlying the legal action to prejudice his political activity, i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ a request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity has been made to mr istván ujhelyi in the context of a pending case before the central district court of pest. the case concerns a crime of defamation, relating to statements made by istván ujhelyi about a person in hungary, in particular saying that he was unfit to hold a certain public office because of his relations with criminals. these statements were made when mr ujhelyi was still a member of the hungarian national parliament and not of the european parliament. the statements under investigation are not related to opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, which therefore renders the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 inapplicable. as such, and in light of the facts, we vote to waive immunity.
‒ on 2 october 2012, during a political debate held at the centro pio la torre in palermo, rosario crocetta made a series of statements that would end up in a defamation suit in an italian court. the committee on legal affairs considers that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the documents provided and the rosario crocetta hearing, show that the statements in question have a direct and obvious link with rosario crocetta's parliamentary activities and are closely associated, at political level, with the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy, in particular as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy. i agree with the defense of rosario crocetta's immunity and privileges.
in writing. this report deals with a request for the defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta, then a member of the european parliament. this member of parliament is facing a criminal case pending before the 3rd criminal section of the court of palermo for allegedly making defamatory statements, which is punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. meps may not be subject to any search, arrest or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties, as a means of protecting their freedom of expression and political action, article 8 of protocol no 7. the statements made by the member in question in the context of the fight against organised crime were the subject of the criminal proceedings in question. it is considered that the facts of the case, as shown by the documents provided to the competent authorities, such as the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made by rosario crocetta have a direct and obvious link with her parliamentary duties. it can be considered that rosario crocetta was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we therefore voted in favour of the defence of the immunities and privileges of rosario crocetta.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this request for immunity comes within the framework of the criminal action pending in the 3rd criminal section of the court of palermo which, according to the notification of the public prosecutor's office, rosario crocetta will have allegedly made defamatory statements, conduct which is punishable by article 595 of the italian criminal code. whereas the record of rosario crocetta's parliamentary activities reveals that he has always played a very active role in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and the member states, and that the action of the member concerned has also focused on the influence of systematic corruption in politics and the economy; i believe that rosario crocetta was acting in the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of the defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta.
‒ having examined the arguments for and against the defence of rosario crocetta's immunity and considering that he was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. in january 2016, the president received a request from rosario crocetta, former member of the european parliament, concerning the defence of his parliamentary immunity in a criminal case pending before the court of palermo. in that case, rosario crocetta is charged with crimes of defamation related to organized crime during a political debate on october 2, 2012. according to the court, a statement made by a member outside the european parliament may constitute an opinion expressed in the course of the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7, the relevance of which depends not on the place where the statement was made but on its nature and content. to be included in the spectrum of immunity, an opinion of a member of the european parliament must have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. the facts of the case, as evidenced by the documents and the hearing held, show that the statements have an obvious link with the parliamentary activities of rosario crocetta. in the light of the foregoing, and in agreement with the court's premises, i cannot but consider that rosario crocetta, in making the statements in question, acted in the exercise of his duties. i therefore vote in favour of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs.
‒ at the request of the victims, the public prosecutor's office at the court of palermo has charged rosario crocetta with the crime of defamation, punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. the committee on legal affairs considers that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the documents provided and the rosario crocetta hearing, show that the statements in question have a direct and obvious link with rosario crocetta's parliamentary activities. given the circumstances of the case and the content of the statements, rosario crocetta's allegations are therefore likely to have a direct and obvious link with her activities as a member of the european parliament. in the light of the foregoing, it can be considered that rosario crocetta, in making the statements in question, acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. on the basis of rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, after considering the arguments for and against the defence of the immunity of rosario crocetta, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament uphold the immunity and privileges of rosario crocetta. i therefore voted in favour of this request.
‒ this former mep has asked for his parliamentary immunity to be defended in the context of the criminal action pending before a court in palermo (italy) for alleged defamatory statements. the statements in question were made while rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament and have a direct link with his parliamentary duties. parliament has rightly decided to maintain his immunity.
in writing. this report deals with a request for the defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta, then a member of the european parliament. this member of parliament is facing a criminal case pending before the 3rd criminal division of the court of palermo for allegedly making defamatory statements, which is punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, arrest or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this is a way of protecting their freedom of expression and political action under article 8 of protocol no 7. the statements made by the member concerned in the context of the fight against organised crime were the subject of the criminal proceedings in question. it is considered that the facts of the case, as demonstrated by the documents provided to the competent authorities, such as the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made by rosario crocetta have a direct and obvious link with her parliamentary duties. it can be considered that rosario crocetta was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we therefore vote in favour of the defence of the immunities and privileges of rosario crocetta.
in writing. ‒ the action concerns the allegedly unlawful granting by the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011 of authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas, and sotorios zarianopoulos is accused as a former councillor of that municipality. this action is in no way connected with his status as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his previous term as a councillor for the municipality of thessaloniki. so i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ the prosecutor of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, member of the european parliament for the greek communist party. the action concerns the allegedly unlawful granting by the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011 of permits for the occupation of public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas. sotirios zarianopoulos is accused, as a former councillor of this municipality, of helping to this situation. it is considered that there are no grounds to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, especially since the action in question involves all the councillors of the municipality at the time.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, the action is related to the allegedly illegal granting by the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011 of authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas and sotorios zarianopoulos is accused as a former councillor of this municipality. the action brought is therefore in no way connected with the status of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his previous term as a member of the municipality of thessaloniki. i therefore vote in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report, because all the necessary legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ on 28 march 2016, the prosecutor at the supreme court of justice of greece requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos. the greek judicial authorities accuse mr zarianopoulos of having, allegedly unlawfully, granted authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades, while he was a councillor of the municipality of thessaloniki. i do not think that the action brought is related to mr zarianopoulos's status as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous term as a municipal councillor. i therefore vote in favour of this report, without advocating or condoning any form of fumus persecutionis.
‒ the attorney general of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, member of the european parliament, in the context of the opening of an investigation procedure concerning an alleged offence. the action is related to the allegedly illegal granting by the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011 of authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas and sotorios zarianopoulos is accused as a former councillor of this municipality. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos.
‒ the action brought is not related to the status of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos. this is a request from the prosecutor of the greek supreme court, concerning a case related to an alleged offence in which the mep was allegedly involved in 2011 in the municipality of thessaloniki in relation to allegedly unlawful authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas when he was a councillor of this municipality. however, since this is allegedly conduct outside his mandate as a member of the european parliament, and since he is holding on to his previous mandate as a member of the municipal council of thessaloniki and there is no reason to believe that there are other intentions underlying the legal action to harm political activity, i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, subject to verification of the conditions set out in article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
‒ the prosecutor of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, who is a member of the european parliament for the greek communist party. the action concerns the allegedly unlawful granting by the municipality of thessaloniki in 2011 of authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing esplanades in pedestrian areas and sotorios zarianopoulos is accused, as a former councillor of that municipality, of helping to this situation. it is considered that there are no grounds to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, especially since the action involves all those who, at the time, were councillors of the municipality.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has extended its customs union. it is incumbent upon the european union to enter into negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia in order to reach agreement on a possible compensatory adjustment. this adjustment is necessary if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in customs duties that exceeds the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. i believe that the european parliament should approve the agreement because the people's republic of china is entitled to the restoration of its previous trade rights, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union when croatia joined the union.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has extended its customs union. consequently, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994), the eu was obliged to open negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia in order to reach agreement on a possible compensatory adjustment. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994. the commission has negotiated with wto members holding negotiating rights the withdrawal of specific concessions resulting from the withdrawal of the customs tariff of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the eu. although the report is eminently technical, our position is inseparable from the position of principle on the grounds for its necessity, which emphasises the eu's exclusive competence in trade policy conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. we believe that countries should be able to conclude, as a matter of right, the trade agreements they sovereignly understand.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has extended its customs union. consequently, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994), the european union was obliged to open negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia in order to reach an agreement on a possible compensatory adjustment. this adjustment is necessary if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in customs duties that exceeds the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. the people's republic of china is entitled to the restoration of its previous trade rights, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union upon the accession of croatia to the union. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. the people's republic of china is entitled to the restoration of its previous trade rights, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union upon the accession of croatia to the union. in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation, the eu was obliged to open negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia. the commission has chosen the increase of the tariff quotas and the decrease of the levels of the duties for the chinese products concerned in order to compensate for losses as compensatory instruments. since the proposed conclusion of the agreement amends the concessions in a proportionate manner and is consistent with previous practice and the wto framework, i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
‒ on 1 july 2013, croatia became the 28th member state of the union, thus extending the number of countries in the current customs union. in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the union is obliged to renegotiate the terms of the trade agreements underlying the wto guidelines in the event of an enlargement of its customs union. in this context, the commission negotiated with the people's republic of china the application of certain countervailing measures on certain trade duties. this agreement ensures the proportionality of the concessions of each party and is also consistent with the wto framework. in accordance with article xxiv (4) of gatt, in so far as a customs union or a free trade area must aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create barriers to trade, and in so far as compensatory adjustments are appropriate, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this is only a technical document relating to the eu-china agreement, in view of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-china agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and, consequently, to the customs union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. in this respect, it is a compensatory agreement, which complies with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) and its multilateral trade regime. i would stress in this connection that china is now the second largest economy in the world and the main supplier of goods to the eu, and to that extent the compensatory instruments which make up this agreement are perfectly proportionate and consistent with the practice prior to croatia's accession and with the wto framework, and in view of these assumptions i have given my approval to this report.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has extended its customs union. consequently, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994), the european union was obliged to open negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia in order to reach an agreement on a possible compensatory adjustment. on 15 july 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994. the commission has negotiated with wto members holding negotiating rights the withdrawal of specific concessions resulting from the withdrawal of the customs tariff of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the european union. although we condemn these free trade agreements for their effects on local economies, we believe that countries should be able to conclude the trade agreements they so desire. that is why we abstained.
‒ parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the draft decision on the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay concerning the modification of concessions provided for in the customs tariff of the republic of croatia in the context of that country's accession to the european union. the negotiations with uruguay resulted in a draft agreement initialled on 18 december 2015 in nairobi. the eu shall integrate into its tariff, for the customs territory of the eu-28, the eu-27 tariff with amendments concerning the tariff quotas applied to beef.
‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu has extended its customs union, obliging it, in accordance with wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the customs tariff of croatia with a view to agreeing on a possible compensatory adjustment. the negotiations with uruguay resulted in a draft agreement initialled on 18 december 2015 in nairobi. a proposal for the signature of this agreement was also submitted and the council decision on signature was taken on 11 april 2016. the approval by the european parliament of this council decision is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol. although the report is eminently technical, our position is inseparable from the position of principle on the grounds for its necessity, which is underlined by the eu's exclusive competence in trade policy, conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon. we believe that countries should be able to conclude, as a matter of right, the trade agreements they sovereignly understand.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the draft decision on the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of gatt 1994 relating to the modification of concessions provided for in the customs tariff of the republic of croatia in the context of that country's accession to the european union.
‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. the eastern republic of uruguay is entitled to the restoration of its previous trade rights, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union upon the accession of croatia to the union. in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation, the eu was obliged to open negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights related to the customs tariff of croatia. since the proposed conclusion of the agreement amends the concessions in a proportionate manner and is consistent with previous practice and the wto framework, i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
‒ on 1 july 2013, croatia became the 28th member state of the union, thus extending the number of countries in the present customs union. in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the union is obliged to renegotiate the terms of the trade agreements underlying the wto guidelines in the event of an enlargement of its customs union. the commission has therefore negotiated with uruguay the application of certain compensatory instruments in respect of certain trade duties. this agreement ensures the proportionality of the concessions of each party and is also consistent with the wto framework. in accordance with article xxiv (4) of gatt, in so far as a customs union or a free trade area must aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create barriers to trade, and in so far as compensatory adjustments are appropriate, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the importance of the relationship between the eu and the republic of uruguay, not only in relation to the conclusion of the draft decision on the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of gatt 1994 on the modification of concessions provided for in the customs tariff of the republic of croatia in the context of that country's accession to the european union. the eu has extended its customs union, obliging it, in accordance with wto rules, to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the customs tariff of croatia, with a view to agreeing on a possible compensatory adjustment, as the eu's external tariff regime results in an increase in customs duties. the eu shall integrate into its tariff, for the customs territory of the eu-28, the eu-27 tariff with amendments concerning the tariff quotas applied to beef. in addition, the commission is preparing, in the context of the agreement, an implementing regulation on the various tariff quotas.
‒ this is only a technical document relating to the eu-uruguay agreement, in view of croatia's accession to the eu.
‒ croatia's accession to the european union has entailed an enlargement of its customs union, resulting in the need to make compensatory adjustments in some trade agreements, given that the eu's external tariff regime results in an increase in customs duties. this was the case under the eu-uruguay agreement, with amendments concerning the tariff quotas for beef. as this is a compensatory measure which meets the criteria of consistency and proportionality, as well as the rules of the world trade organisation and its multilateral trade regime, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu has extended its customs union, obliging it, in accordance with wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the customs tariff of croatia with a view to agreeing on a possible compensatory adjustment. the negotiations with uruguay resulted in a draft agreement initialled on 18 december 2015 in nairobi. a proposal for the signature of this agreement was also submitted and the council decision on signature was taken on 11 april 2016. the approval by the european parliament of this council decision is a mandatory element for the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol. although we condemn these free trade agreements for their effects on local economies, we believe that countries should be able to conclude the trade agreements they so desire. for this reason, our abstention vote
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. mr lazaros stravrou lazarou presented his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ having regard to the assessment of the qualifications of the proposed candidate and to the hearing of the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors by the committee on budgetary control, i give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ after the committee on budgetary control's assessment of lazaros stavrou lazarou's qualifications and after hearing the nominee, i voted in favour and this report gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ the selection process for this post was conducted in an open and transparent manner and i therefore voted in favour of the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou as a member of the court of auditors, as mr lazaros stravou has demonstrated in the hearing before the committee on budgetary control that he has proven competence and professional experience for the duties to be assigned to him.
‒ it has nothing against personality in mind. but we do not recognize the legitimacy of this european court, which is just another instrument in the service of this neoliberal, militarist capitalist integration of europe.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. mr joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo presented his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties there in a competent and independent manner. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ having regard to the assessment of the qualifications of the proposed candidate and to the hearing of the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors by the committee on budgetary control, i give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ after the committee on budgetary control had assessed the qualifications and subsequently heard the candidate, mr joão figueiredo, i voted in favour and this report gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint judge joão figueiredo as a member of the european court of auditors, replacing judge vítor caldeira, in view of his undeniable record in the field, which demonstrates a broad and recognised competence in the field of tax and financial law. following the hearing in the committee on budgetary control on 5 september, it was found that the requirements for his appointment were met, in particular as regards his competence, background and professional experience, as well as the guarantees of independence and impartiality inherent in the exercise of this function and scrupulous respect for the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in view of all the foregoing and the fact that he will be replaced by another portuguese judge of recognised merit, i wish him a very successful term of office at the european court of auditors.
‒ the appointment of mr joão figueiredo to the court of auditors is a positive development because he has a level of professional experience that is extremely mature for the proper exercise of these functions. joão figueiredo, in addition to a remarkable career at national level, has the international and multicultural experience necessary to fulfil his duties in the european system.
‒ it has nothing against personality in mind. but we do not recognize the legitimacy of this european court, which is just another instrument in the service of this neoliberal, militarist capitalist integration of europe.
‒ the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, and exercises its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. mr leo brincat submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and did not provide sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties there in a competent and independent manner. hence my vote against your nomination.
‒ having regard to the assessment of the qualifications and the hearing by the committee on budgetary control of the candidate proposed by the council, i give a favourable opinion on the nomination of leo brincat to the post of member of the court of auditors.
‒ after the committee on budgetary control had assessed the qualifications and heard the candidate leo brincat, i voted in favour of this report giving a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors.
‒ having received a proposal in which the selection process was conducted in an open and transparent manner, i agree to the appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors, as the proposed candidate has demonstrated, at the hearing by the committee on budgetary control, that he has the proven competence and professional experience to perform these duties to the full.
in the first place, we are not in favour of the creation of a european court of justice, which is just another instrument in the service of the neoliberal and militarist capitalist integration of europe. however, this nomination deserves our repudiation because the personality in question is deeply connected to a government heavily involved in the panama papers tax scandal.
‒ the commission had to adapt the rules for decision-making on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts and committed itself to presenting the second phase of comitology alignments on legislative acts containing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before the end of the seventh legislature. in this context, the commission has proposed to amend the regulation on community statistics. the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making allowed the parliament and council negotiating teams to reach agreement on the regulation in question. i voted in favour.
in the light of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon with which we strongly disagree and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for decision-making in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. most of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been brought into line with the new regime, through the trade omnibus regulations i and ii and several subsequent individual alignments. in this context, the commission proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading at the plenary session of 12 march 2014, informal negotiations were opened with the italian presidency with a view to reaching a swift agreement at second reading. following several rounds of trilogues, the negotiations were suspended pending the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which provides, inter alia, for a horizontal solution as regards the consultation of member states' experts when preparing delegated acts. we abstained.
‒ the aim of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 in order to bring it into line with the new institutional context. in particular, it is necessary to identify the powers conferred on the commission and to establish the appropriate procedure for the adoption of measures based on those powers. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ according to the report, following the adoption of parliament's first reading position at the plenary session of 12 march 2014, informal negotiations were opened with the italian presidency with a view to reaching a second reading agreement quickly. following several rounds of trilogues, the negotiations were suspended pending the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which provides, inter alia, for a horizontal solution as regards the consultation of member states' experts when preparing delegated acts. i therefore vote in favour of the agreement reached at first reading with a view to continuing the negotiating process with the council so that an agreement can be reached which is beneficial and of interest to both sides.
‒ i voted in favour, as i understand that in the light of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for decision-making in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. most of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy was brought into line with the new constitutional regime, through the trade omnibus regulations i and ii and several subsequent individual alignments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation at second reading amending council regulation no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries. this is a change that follows the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and regulation no 182/2011 on implementing acts in the field of trade policy, under which the european commission committed itself to present a second phase of comitology alignments - a method of monitoring by eu countries on how the european commission applies european legislation. this alignment implies the amendment of regulation no 471/2009 on community statistics, as it is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the comitology procedure for a regulation with scrutiny. the difficulty in reaching an agreement in this area was related to the delay in the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making in december 2015 between the parliament and council negotiating teams, which was subsequently approved by a large majority in the committee on international trade in april 2016.
‒ following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, informal negotiations with the italian presidency were opened at the plenary session of 12 march 2014 with a view to reaching an agreement at second reading as soon as possible. following several rounds of trilogues, the negotiations were suspended pending the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which provides, inter alia, for a horizontal solution as regards the consultation of member states' experts when preparing delegated acts. the abstention vote.
‒ the eu has long been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices, collected and published by eurostat, and its procedure has been improved, but its basis is voluntary. i support the kappel report, which is moving from a voluntary to a mandatory regime for the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices, avoiding the problems reported by the states, benefiting the consumer and allowing a wide market coverage with a high level of quality of price data. the new rules set out in this report clarify objectives, simplify procedures and increase transparency.
‒ the collection of data on natural gas and electricity end-user prices was carried out on a voluntary basis with a response rate of 100%. the objective of this regulation is to transform a voluntary regime into a mandatory one, in order to avoid problems in the collection of data. this step is necessary to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the data from the electricity and natural gas price survey for the household consumption sector and to continue to achieve a broad market coverage as well as a high level of quality of the price data. the aim of this report is to clarify the objectives, simplify certain provisions for reporting authorities and companies that have to provide data, and avoid misunderstandings that in the worst case would lead to incomparable data sets.
‒ since the 1970s, the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices. in 1990, the council adopted the directive defining the procedure for improving price transparency for industrial end-users of gas and electricity, but not for household consumers. the methodology was changed in 2007 to take account of the liberalisation of energy markets. however, data on natural gas and electricity end-user prices were collected on a voluntary basis with a response rate of 100%. the rapporteur believes that the 'objective of this regulation is to transform a voluntary regime into a mandatory one, in order to avoid problems in the collection of data, as has been reported by several member states'. we are in favour of collecting data on gas and electricity prices, with a view to transparency and the protection of households and final consumers. however, this report is just another chapter in the specifications of the european single market and the so-called energy union, masked here and there with pretended good intentions. we voted against it.
‒ competitiveness, sustainability and energy security are the overarching objectives of a resilient energy union with a visionary climate change policy. high-quality, comparable, up-to-date, reliable and harmonised information on natural gas and electricity prices charged to final customers is necessary to define the energy union policy and monitor member states' energy markets. this regulation aims to make available european statistics to support energy policies, in particular those aimed at the creation of a fully integrated internal energy market for consumers. there should be greater transparency of energy costs and prices, as well as public support, to improve market integration. that is why i am voting in favour.
this regulation aims to make compulsory the collection of data on final consumer prices for natural gas and electricity. this amendment is essential in order to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the data of the electricity and natural gas price survey for the household consumption sector and to continue to achieve a broad market coverage as well as a high level of quality of the price data. the report aims to clarify the objectives, simplify certain provisions for reporting authorities and companies that have to provide data, and avoid misunderstandings that in the worst case would lead to incomparable data sets. with regard to price allocation, it is for the national regulatory authority or the government to propose a cost allocation methodology and to provide the information necessary to implement the allocation, subject to prior consultation of stakeholders and verification by eurostat in order to ensure price comparability between countries. i agree with the rapporteur that, in making disclosure compulsory, it is important to protect the confidentiality of sensitive information concerning consumers and suppliers.
‒ the main objective of this proposal is to increase the transparency of natural gas and electricity prices for the household consumer. directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council provides in this context for a common binding framework on the production, transmission and dissemination of comparable statistics on electricity and natural gas prices to industrial end-users. however, the collection of data on such prices by domestic consumers shall remain on a voluntary basis. the proposal therefore aims to establish a binding system for the collection of the same data also for domestic consumers, thus avoiding problems in the collection of data and ensuring their accuracy and comparability. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important that data on the prices actually paid by household consumers should be made public, since this proposal promotes social justice and scrutiny of the energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the data collection be done in a top-notch way so as to avoid the quality of data available from surveys on electricity and natural gas prices for the household consumption sector deteriorating significantly and to continue to achieve a broad market coverage as well as a high level of quality of price data. a collection of data by the competent national authorities that is correct and includes any sub-components that have been omitted, in particular excise duties, should be provided for the benefit of the citizen. the national regulatory authority or the government shall, after proposing a cost allocation methodology, provide the information necessary to apply this allocation, subject to prior consultation of interested parties and verification by eurostat, in order to ensure comparability of prices between countries.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on natural gas and electricity prices. since 1990 there has been a procedure to promote price transparency for the industrial end consumer in these sectors, but not for the household consumer. for this reason, the purpose of this regulation is precisely to transform the current voluntary regime for the collection of data on final consumer prices into a mandatory regime, as a way of avoiding difficulties in the collection and improving the quality of data on electricity and natural gas prices. i therefore support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which seek to clarify and simplify the rules and procedures for both the reporting authorities and the companies when providing data. and of course, because i consider this change in the existing paradigm to be important in the interests of simplifying and making statistical data transparent, without jeopardizing the confidentiality of certain consumer information, i supported this report by voting in favour.
‒ we are in favour of collecting data on the prices of natural gas and electricity that consumers pay in different countries, as this will increase transparency and can help protect households and end consumers from speculation. however, this report is just another chapter in the specifications for the european single market and the european energy union, masked here and there with pretended good intentions.
‒ the electricity market must lead to the effective transformation of the electricity market, contribute to efficiency and security of supply, as well as to the development of renewable energy and interconnections, and ensure the completion of the internal european energy market. the european energy market, if well designed and properly implemented, has the potential to substantially increase europe's energy security and independence, in particular vis-à-vis the main suppliers on which the union depends. i support this report because i believe it is important to review the existing regulatory framework to encourage the use of energy storage systems with the aim of feeding a higher proportion of energy from intermittent renewable sources into the energy system at a lower marginal cost. better integration and coordination of energy markets holds multiple opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply.
‒ the future of the electricity market must be achieved by creating an eu-wide electricity market that sends a clear price signal for new investment, by creating a european approach to security of energy supply and by strengthening regional cooperation in the energy sector, in particular with regard to investments in new power plants, interconnections and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energies into the european single market. sustainable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households, but also for job security in energy-intensive enterprises. the commission proposes a package of measures to this end, which i agree with.
‒ the european commission has set out three policy objectives for the future single energy market: 1. to create an eu-wide electricity market; 2. to create an eu approach to security of energy supply; 3. to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector, in particular with regard to investments in new power plants, interconnections and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energies into the single market. an agenda that is inseparable from the objectives of the major european groups in the sector and the powers that defend their interests. in essence, the report advocates the liberalisation of the 'energy market', pressing member states to accelerate the process of privatising what is still public. without recognizing that, contrary to miraculous promises, neither workers nor consumers have benefited from liberalization. quite the opposite! profits have risen at the expense of employment, wages and workers' rights and the prices paid by consumers. energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the sovereign economic development of the country, supported by scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability. reason enough for it to be kept in the public domain, under democratic scrutiny and control. this report is incompatible with those principles. and that is reason enough for our vote against.
‒ the energy sector is an extremely important sector and requires strategic planning. it is essential to promote renewable energy and to look at energy as a public good to which everyone should have fair access. i also believe that questions such as the development of renewable energy, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability can only be answered with public management and control. the langen report does not reflect these needs, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the integration of energy markets, linked to the integration of all market players, including 'producer-consumers', will contribute to achieving the treaty objective of secure, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy supply. in order to achieve climate and energy objectives, the energy system of the future should be more flexible, and therefore investment in all flexibility solutions, namely flexible generation, network development and demand and storage, is necessary. it is therefore important that the new energy union strategy is designed to make the eu a leader in renewable energy. to achieve this goal, a fundamental transformation of the european electricity system will be required. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the increasing dependence in recent years on oil and gas imports, the lack of diversification, the high price of energy, the increase in energy demand, the security risks for producing countries, the fight against climate change, the slow progress in energy efficiency, renewable energy quotas have become the major challenges in the field of energy europe. on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a series of european internal market documents with three policy objectives for the future electricity market: to create an eu-wide electricity market, to develop a european approach to the security of energy supply and to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector. i agree with the rapporteur that better integration and coordination of energy markets offers many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply. i stress the importance of this approach at eu level, as acceptable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households as well as for job security in companies.
‒ dependence on gas and oil imports, lack of diversification, growing global energy demand, slow progress in energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy are some of the energy challenges europe is facing today. in july 2015, the commission presented a series of documents on the design of a new european energy market configuration, which are followed by this document. the report aims to strengthen the european internal energy market, based on three main objectives: facilitating the circulation of energy, ensuring price stability for investors; efficient and safe use of energy storage capacities; and, through regional cooperation in the sector, increasing investment and improving the integration of renewable energies. i am voting in favour of this report, but i am also of the opinion that article 194 of the tfeu, which states that european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of supply, must be respected. i would also point out that the definition of the energy mix of the member states and the conditions for exploiting their energy resources remains a national prerogative.
‒ i voted in favour, as i believe that it is necessary to continue protecting european consumers, since sustainable energy prices are essential for the standard of living of households, but also for job security in energy-intensive companies. this report aims to create an eu-wide electricity market by strengthening regional cooperation in the energy sector, integrating renewable energies into the european single market and limiting dependence on oil and gas imports, with the ultimate aim of making the union energy self-sufficient, thus reducing dependence on third countries.
in writing. ‒ mr president, we need a new energy market design that takes account of the variable nature of electricity supply, moving away from the traditional centralised model and towards a more flexible system based on renewable energy produced at local level. a new energy market configuration, coupled with the implementation of existing legislation, strengthens regional cooperation in all aspects of energy security and demand, and should focus on improved, more decentralised and more flexible markets, in order to ensure a well-regulated market-based system with the capacity to deliver all the eu's 2030 energy and climate targets.
‒ a public consultation on the new energy market configuration was launched in the context of the commission's communication of 15 july last year. the communication sets out three clear policy objectives: an eu-wide market that sends a clear price signal for new investment; a new european approach to security of supply; enhanced regional cooperation in the sector, in particular with regard to investment in new power stations, interconnections and support schemes; and the integration of renewable energy into the european single market. europe faces energy challenges related to increased dependence on oil and gas imports, high energy prices, growing global demand, security risks in producing and transit countries and the fight against climate change. as a portuguese, i consider the full integration of the european market to be an absolute priority, without, of course, neglecting the other aspects highlighted in the commission's communication and supported by this report - such as the importance of reducing external energy dependence or lowering the price of energy. i am therefore in favour of the report.
‒ the report is essentially about liberalising the 'energy market' once again, by pressing member states to speed up the process of privatising what is still public. the fact is that the results of market liberalization, such as that of electricity, are well known and show that neither workers nor consumers have benefited from liberalization. on the contrary! it always reduces entitlement employment and increases the prices paid by consumers. energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the economic, social and sovereign development of a country and its people, which must be used efficiently, avoiding waste, accompanying scientific and technological knowledge, with ecological sustainability, for the raising of the living conditions of society, and therefore must belong to the public and democratic sphere. this document is incompatible with these fundamental democratic principles. that is why we are voting against it.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the following areas: i believe that member states should prepare alternative strategies to the capacity mechanisms currently used to adapt production capacity to the flexibility demanded by demand. this mechanism has the effect of distorting the internal market and has an impact on the energy bills of european consumers. i believe that the increasing focus on renewables as energy sources should, in the long term, allow these capacity mechanisms to be discontinued.
‒ heating and cooling is the largest energy sector in the european union, accounting for 50% of eu energy consumption. of this half of global consumption, only 18% comes from renewable sources and 75% from fossil sources. the size of this area makes it a priority for the energy union and this report, as the first energy efficiency strategy for the sector, is of great importance. i believe that thermal renovation of buildings should be given priority, including extensive interventions in large residential areas. i would remind you that eu funding must be balanced with national investment and the initiative of owners, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. in this respect, i would point out that heating or cooling needs vary widely across the eu (heat requirements in the north contrast with cooling requirements in the south, for example), and specificities must be taken into account in any regulation. i would like to see any comprehensive reform in this sector promoting scientific initiative and research in energy technologies, and thus making the energy transition a sustained process based on credible and transparent cost-benefit analyses. i therefore support the report.
‒ the issue of heating and cooling does not affect all member states in the same way. for this reason, the order of priority of the measures taken varies from country to country. it is in the thermal renovation of buildings that the greatest gains in energy efficiency can be made in the countries that joined the union after 2004. it is essential to substantially increase the financing of thermal renovation works for entire residential areas, in particular those built using the large-panel method of construction. at least 25% of the total resources of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund shall be dedicated to this purpose.
‒ the issue of heating and cooling affects member states in different ways. for this reason, the order of priority of the measures taken varies from country to country. it is in the thermal renovation of buildings that major gains in energy efficiency can be achieved, ensuring a considerable reduction in co2 emissions. substantial increases in funding for the thermal renewal of entire residential areas are essential, an objective which the current allocation of the relevant eu programmes is not able to meet. the report makes a number of proposals and considerations which, in general terms, deserve our agreement, both in terms of heat production and cooling - a growing concern in the mediterranean countries - including appropriate architectural solutions such as thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps, which remove heat from buildings during the hottest periods and pump heat indoors when heating is needed. solar radiation is an important source of heat, although it is still underutilized, and can be used through solar panels for water heating or electricity generation. the report is a political report, but it is mainly concerned with more technical matters. we voted in favour.
‒ i think it is very important that this report talks about the reduction, albeit gradual but significant, of the use of fossil fuels, because i believe that we must move towards a smarter and more sustainable use of resources, in particular the increased use of renewable energy. however, this report refers to the production of energy from waste (incinerators) which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ further efforts are needed to reduce the heating needs of buildings and to replace the remaining needs of imported fossil fuels used in individual boilers with sustainable heating and cooling options, in line with the union's 2050 targets. buildings represent a huge percentage of total final energy consumption and energy efficiency improvements in buildings and demand response programmes can play a central role in balancing energy demand and meeting needs during peak demand periods, reducing overcapacity and lowering production, operating and transport costs. the strategy for heating and cooling should prioritise sustainable and cost-effective solutions that enable member states to meet the union's climate and energy policy targets. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the growing dependence on oil and gas imports in recent years, the lack of diversification, the high price of energy, the increase in energy demand, the security risks for producing countries, the fight against climate change, the slow progress in energy efficiency and renewable energy quotas have become the major challenges in the field of energy europe. on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a series of documents on the european internal market, with three policy objectives for the future electricity market: to create an eu-wide electricity market, to develop a european approach to the security of energy supply and to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector. i agree with the rapporteur that better integration and coordination of energy markets offers many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply. i would stress the importance of this approach at eu level, as acceptable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households as well as for job security in companies.
in writing. ‒ today, half of the final energy demand in the european union is intended to meet the needs of europe's largest energy sector: heating and cooling. only 18% of the energy used in this sector comes from renewable energy sources, the rest being supplied by fossil fuels. the vast majority of energy in this sector, more precisely 80%, is used in buildings, making it important to increase energy efficiency in household consumption, reuse of waste energy, high-performance thermal insulation and the use of renewable energy. the diversity of energy needs in the member states underpins the idea of technological neutrality, ensuring flexibility in the choice of the appropriate solutions for each user. this report also stresses the importance of securing funding for the modernisation of the sector and of promoting ways of achieving the best cost-effectiveness in the energy transition. in view of the objectives set out in the paris agreement, the path to energy independence from fossil energy sources is long and the heating and cooling sector therefore needs sustained and appropriate action as this report underlines. so my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that any change that benefits the environment is an added value for the eu. it is therefore necessary to take into account new technologies and techniques that can result in higher energy efficiency, such as the thermal renovation of buildings or the use of solar panels for water heating or the generation of electricity, which is still rare. in the mediterranean countries of europe, refrigeration is a growing concern due to the gradual warming of the climate. appropriate architectural solutions, thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps, which remove heat from buildings during the hottest periods and pump heat indoors when heating is needed, can play a major role in solving this problem.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the issue of heating and cooling does not affect all member states in the same way. the priority of the measures taken will therefore have to vary from one country to another, as will the timing of implementation. we all understand that the greatest gains in energy efficiency can be made in the thermal renovation of buildings, which is the simplest way to ensure more efficient energy use and a considerable reduction in co2 emissions. it is essential to increase funding for thermal renewal of residential areas. in the mediterranean countries of europe, such as my own country, portugal, this is a growing concern. appropriate architectural solutions, thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps, which remove heat from buildings during the hottest periods and pump heat indoors when heating is needed, can play a major role in solving this problem.
‒ this own-initiative report follows the commission communication entitled 'eu heating and cooling strategy', which, as the report highlights, represents an important step towards developing a comprehensive approach to heating and cooling in the european union (eu) and identifying priority areas for action in these areas. in fact, 50% of final energy demand in the eu is for heating and cooling, with fossil fuel generation accounting for 75% of this figure. the report highlights the importance of implementing the plan to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, in particular by the thermal renovation of existing buildings and the construction of more efficient small cogeneration plants for heat and electricity to replace obsolete generating plants. i also think it is important to focus on cooling, because of global warming, a problem felt mainly in southern europe, and i agree with the emphasis on the importance of appropriate architectural solutions, thermal insulation and the use of reversible heat pumps. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its content.
‒ a substantial increase in financing for thermal renovation of entire residential areas, particularly those built using the large-panel method of construction, is essential. the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be used for this purpose. this objective should be a priority, particularly given that the costs of such projects are usually beyond the capacity of the building owners. obsolete heat generating plants in residential areas should also be replaced as a matter of urgency by small, high-efficiency cogeneration plants. in the mediterranean countries of europe, refrigeration is a growing concern due to the gradual warming of the climate. appropriate architectural solutions, such as thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps, which remove heat from buildings during the hottest periods and pump heat indoors when heating is required, can play a relevant role in solving this problem. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gierek report because i agree with the proposed strategy for heating and cooling. about 40 percent of our energy consumption comes from an aging housing stock that accounts for 36 percent of our total carbon dioxide emissions. in this respect, i would argue that we should extend our legislative scope for heating and cooling beyond public buildings to private ones, while at the same time creating access to finance so that they can carry out the necessary reforms. i would particularly stress the call for the development at national level of specific and sustainable heating and cooling strategies, with particular attention to combined heat and power, cogeneration and district heating and cooling systems, always giving preference to renewable energy sources.
‒ the competitiveness of smes is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. the thematic programming of the cohesion funds is a welcome innovation, as it allows for greater scrutiny of their application, and it is already possible to conclude that their allocation has contributed to a strengthening of growth and job creation, including in micro-enterprises. this issue is of particular importance for portugal, where the majority of the business fabric is smes. this resolution makes a good diagnosis of the difficulties encountered. it should be noted, however, that in the context of the cohesion funds of the previous period - contrary to what happened in the rest of europe - portugal had one of the best executions at european level. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, stressing the importance of greater scrutiny and a closer link to smes in the planning of the next multiannual financial framework.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential to the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. in the 2007-2013 period, with the support of cohesion policy, eur 70 billion was used to support enterprises, especially smes, and in the 2014-2020 period the objective is to double this amount. under the broad theme of 'sme competitiveness', over eur 63 billion from the esi funds has been allocated to the 2014-2020 programming period. some 801 500 enterprises will be supported to create 354 300 new direct jobs. 396 500 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will receive funding to invest in human capital development and workers' skills. i voted in favour.
‒ in the current economic and social context, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is essential. we therefore support a report which seeks to draw attention to this essential fact, all the more so if that report calls for an increase in this support from the eu budget. but this central issue cannot hide the deep and serious differences we have on some of the issues addressed in this report. we are not seeing ourselves in the neoliberal agenda of the eu2020 strategy, to which the eu's structural and investment funds are subordinated (a principle advocated by the rapporteur), nor in the rules of conditionality (or 'thematic tuning') which divide the action of member states (and smes) in determining their real investment needs and priorities. while we generally agree on the need to increase the efficiency of smes by promoting circular economy practices and thereby (and more generally by increasing the environmental sustainability of companies) promoting the creation of new jobs, we cannot agree on the overly prescriptive and taxing nature of many of the guidelines underlying the application of eu funds. we believe that the development of smes is inseparable from the strategic development framework of the member state in which they are located. we are concerned with the exaltation of the benefits of the single market.
‒ cohesion policy is the main instrument for investment in growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020. the concrete results of investment in cohesion policy can help to shape the current and future growth of regions in the member states. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, levels of poverty and social exclusion have increased in many member states as well as long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequalities and smes can therefore play a relevant and important role in europe's economic recovery. it is therefore necessary to look at smes as a major engine of development and economic growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i believe that cohesion policy is one of the main public policy instruments to support and strengthen the competitiveness of smes. with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, cohesion policy can help shape the current and future growth of regions in the member states. i am voting in favour of this report with a view to strengthening support for smes, stressing the importance of doubling the support for the period 2007-2013 to eur 140 billion, the existence of a future participatory platform and the creation of an ecosystem including universities, research centres, social and economic actors and public institutions.
in writing. ‒ recently, as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis, levels of unemployment, poverty, exclusion and social inequality have developed worryingly in many member states. given that the 23 million smes in the union represent around 99% of all enterprises, and that these smes generate two out of every three jobs in the european single market, it is logical to assume that their role is important in the economic and social recovery of the member states. under the 3rd thematic objective of the european structural investment funds (esif), strengthening the competitiveness of smes is of great importance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 goal. among the various suggestions made, this report stresses the importance of increasing the effectiveness of sme support mechanisms by simplifying procedures and improving coordination and consistency between european investment policies. in view of the above and considering that smes are the driving force of the european economy, i agree that the support from the esi funds for smes should be increased and i vote in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour, as i believe it is imperative to strengthen the competitiveness of smes in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. smes are essential to the economies of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness, and it is expected that by 2020 support could reach some 801 500 enterprises for the creation of 354 300 new direct jobs. companies (including cooperative and social economy enterprises) will receive funding to invest in the development of human capital and skills of workers. smes form a very significant part of the eu economy and have a huge capacity to create real jobs. investing in more efficient management of smes' resources offers enormous potential for reducing production costs and increasing productivity, potentially saving €630 billion per year for european industry. it is necessary to enable smes to develop a green environment (re-manufacturing, repair, maintenance, recycling) thus contributing to solving environmental challenges, while promoting economic growth and job creation.
‒ the commission's annual report on european smes for 2014/2015 indicates that in 2014 smes accounted for 71,4% of the increase in employment in the non-financial corporate sector and employed around 90 million people i.e. 67% of total employment. small and medium-sized enterprises are therefore essential to the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. i believe that if local authorities want to be more involved in the management of the esi funds, central administrations should give them the possibility of receiving more decision-making powers, starting with the selection of projects. technical assistance and early participation in the discussions on investment priorities in future funding phases will contribute to this process. since most countries and regions have only just begun to launch programmes, there is scope for the managing authorities and the commission to apply more systematically the principle of partnership enshrined in the regulation and the code of conduct.
‒ the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) ' is of key importance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. between 2007 and 2013, €70 billion was allocated under cohesion policy to support businesses that created 263 000 jobs, with a doubling of this target for the period 2014-2020. the introduction of these thematic objectives in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programming provided an effective tool for designing operational programmes with a stronger focus on investment priorities. the thematic concentration and particularly this objective have led to a better orientation of the operational programmes towards a narrower number of strategic objectives, with the result that growth and the quality of job creation for smes have improved. in this respect, i consider this report to be very important, as it provides, on the one hand, a positive assessment of this thematic objective, and, on the other, a perspective for the financial programming period 2014-2020, measuring the achievement of the results achieved to date and trying to draw conclusions for the remaining mff.
‒ there are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union, providing 100 million jobs and exporting about a quarter of their activities. as mentioned in the report, i consider it important to enhance transparency and the involvement of all regional and local authorities, civil society actors, business and other relevant stakeholders, in particular in the process of defining the requirement of calls for proposals, in order to better target the needs of the final beneficiaries. there are challenges that clearly can be turned into opportunities. these are the cases of the need for smes to adapt to the decisions of cop 21 and the possibility of integrating refugees and migrants, as the report very well points out. for these reasons too, i voted in favour.
‒ the shared objective of investments under the esi funds is to support the implementation of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. smes are essential to the economies of the eu regions (99% of enterprises and 85% of jobs) in terms of employment and competitiveness. for the period 2007-13, cohesion policy support for enterprises was €70 billion, mainly for smes. the objective is to double this amount for the period 2014-2020 (also with the help of financial instruments). this report emphasises the need to increase the efficiency of smes by promoting circular economy practices, the promotion of 'green jobs' and international assertiveness. this position does not remove all the reservations we have about the objectives underlying cohesion policies that condition investment and link regional development policies to the neoliberal agendas of agenda 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the damato report on strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), as i believe they are fundamental to the prosperity of the european economy. i stress that as a result of the economic and financial crisis, levels of poverty and social exclusion have increased in many member states, as have long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequalities, and that smes can therefore play a particularly important role in europe's economic recovery. today, the eu's 23 million smes represent about 99% of all businesses and provide more than 100 million jobs. it is therefore essential that the commission and the member states take into account the added value of smes, especially when it comes to innovating in traditional sectors. i also highlight the role of smes in the service sector, which is undergoing a significant change as a result of digitalisation, and i believe that the skills gap in ict qualifications needs to be addressed by placing greater emphasis on relevant training and education.
‒ this is the eu's fourth macro-regional strategy and can therefore benefit from the experience of the european union's strategies for the baltic sea region, the danube region and the adriatic and ionian region. macro-regional strategies have so far been based on intergovernmental initiatives aimed at areas of our continent long divided by wars and iron curtains, with the aim of relaunching economic and institutional cooperation between these territories. the eusalp strategy is set in a context characterised by different forms of cooperation in the region, such as the alpine area and the alpine convention, in addition to various crossborder interreg programmes. eusalp covers 48 regions and seven countries represented by five member states (italy, france, austria, germany and slovenia) and two third countries (switzerland and liechtenstein). the region, home to more than 80 million people, has a strong human, natural, economic and cultural attraction. i voted in favour.
‒ the strategy for the alpine region is already the fourth proposal put forward by the eu in terms of macro-regional strategies. the notion of macro-regions, involving eu countries and others outside this context, contributes to the acquisition of scale, which can benefit development. this framework and the scope of this territory, while containing some potential, nevertheless also raises some concerns, in particular as regards the strategic and cohesion resources and investments needed, not only for the macro-regions, but for the member states themselves, those involved and others, given how scarce the eu budget resources are. the report includes several positive points, highlighting the inclusion of social organizations in the policy-making for the macro-region, the prospect of reducing carbon emissions, the promotion of renewable energy, climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection of the coatings and biodiversity, the fight against the problems of desertification and economic depression and the sustainable promotion of tourism, among others.
‒ this report addresses a number of important issues such as concerns about carbon emissions, renewable energy, climate change, species and biodiversity protection, the potential risks of hydropower and sustainable tourism. however, the report could go further with regard to renewable energy. a group of members, including myself, tabled amendments on water as a public good, which were voted down in plenary. in the context of cohesion policies, we deeply regret and consider unacceptable the blackmailing of portugal with sanctions through european funds.
‒ in order to promote overall harmonious development, economic, social and territorial cohesion throughout the eu must be strengthened. macro-regional strategies are currently the key instrument to contribute to the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ with the aim of promoting overall harmonious development and economic, social and territorial cohesion throughout the eu, i believe that the macro-regional strategy for the alpine region can contribute to reversing economic decline through investment in research, innovation and support for entrepreneurship. it is important to stress that macro-regional strategies should aim at achieving the common objectives of the different regions more effectively, by identifying resources and exploiting the common development potential of the regions. i support the importance of the commission's communication and action plan for the alpine region, which is a key step for the development of the region, in line with the europe 2020 strategy's objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and has a vital role in combating the depopulation of the region, in particular the exodus of the young population. i agree with the rapporteur that the social dimension must be strengthened to ensure the development of a growth model capable of ensuring sustainable growth, social inclusion and social protection for all, especially in border areas, and that it is important to encourage the creation of social infrastructure and to promote social investment.
‒ the lisbon treaty, by enshrining a set of rules that point to the design of territorial cohesion, has made it possible to create macro-regional strategies, through intergovernmental initiatives, in order to relaunch economic and institutional cooperation between seemingly distant territories. the union strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) covers 48 regions and 7 countries, represented by five member states. the region is home to some 80 million people and has vast natural, economic and cultural resources. this report identifies the priorities put forward by the constituent parts of the region: improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the region, ensuring access and interconnection for all the region's inhabitants, and the sustainability of the alps. it should be noted that the present macro-regional strategy builds on the opportunities of existing cooperation initiatives and synergies between different financial instruments of the union, thus applying the principle of the three 'no's' on legislation, funding and institution building. eusalp offers an opportunity to members of the alpine region, either to invest in joint projects with a european impact, allowing for a joint vision and action on regional problems, or to promote territorial cohesion and good relations between member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because i believe that it is necessary to invest in joint projects with a european impact, not just interregional, and to develop new forms of governance at various levels, starting from the regions, with the contribution of the european institutions. it is therefore necessary to improve the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region, to ensure access and interconnection for all inhabitants of the alpine region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the interior) and to ensure sustainability in the alps.
‒ these regions have significant development potential. the priorities are to improve the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region, to ensure access and interconnection for all inhabitants of the region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the hinterland), to ensure sustainability in the alps, to protect heritage and to promote sustainable use of natural and cultural resources (environment, transnational terrestrial habitats and biodiversity).
‒ in response to the council's request in 2013, the european commission submitted an action plan on the european union strategy for the alpine region (euera). this own-initiative report underlines the principle that macro-regions should develop synergies between the different eu funding instruments and that the member states involved should therefore coordinate their national and regional policies in order to contribute to the actions and objectives set out in euera. the rapporteur stresses the importance of a strategic plan for this geographical area, insisting on the adoption of partnerships for the management and implementation of actions based on respect for the principles of subsidiarity and multilevel governance. it also stressed the importance of financial instruments in stimulating research and innovation, both in the search for new technologies and in key areas of the economy, by preserving, stimulating and seeking more added value for traditional economic activities. the diversification of tourism, the importance of improving connectivity in transport and energy networks, and the protection and improvement of biodiversity are some of the proposals put forward by my colleague and which lead me to vote in favour of this report.
‒ the strategy for the alpine region is already the fourth proposal put forward by the eu in terms of a macro-regional strategy. the notion of macro-regions, involving eu countries and others outside this context, contributes to the acquisition of scale, which can benefit development. this framework and the scope of this territory raise, however, the concern that strategic and cohesion investments, being absorbed by the macro-region, may not be missing, resulting in a lack of strategic and cohesion funding for the member states involved, i.e. to the detriment of the specific needs of each member state. the report includes several positive points, highlighting the inclusion of civil society in the definition of policies for the macro-region, carbon emissions, the promotion of renewable energies, climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection of the coatings and biodiversity, the fight against the problems of desertification and economic depression, the sustainable promotion of tourism, etc. it also refers to the potential risks of the construction of hydroelectric infrastructure, a matter on the italian government's agenda.
the european union and its member states have agreed to continue to support the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc sustainable development goals, including the implementation of the unfccc sustainable development goals, and to continue to support the implementation of the unfccc sustainable development goals. i support the corrao report, as i consider it urgent to make funds available more quickly, and i stress the need to respond quickly to specific emergency or post-emergency crises, drawing on contributions from eu member states and other donors. the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties. - 81.71 million of the 1.8 billion planned, or only 4.5%! on the budgetary side, i agree that an appropriate review of the ceiling should be made in order to allow the inclusion of crisis mechanisms in the mff and to restore unity to the budget, as parliament has shown its responsibility in agreeing to release emergency funds. the projects under this programme must be in line with the union's values and the promotion of human rights.
‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is to help promote stability in these regions, contribute to better migration management and tackle the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. 1.5 billion people worldwide live in fragile and conflict-affected regions, and fragile states and ungoverned spaces have been increasing, leaving many people abandoned to poverty, anarchy, rampant corruption and violence. the fund is therefore intended to complement existing eu aid to the regions concerned by more than eur 10 billion by 2020, in order to support inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. the so-called trust fund for africa was launched at the valletta summit in november 2015, which represented a sordid attempt to force developing countries into submission to the eu's inhumane migration policy. the fund is therefore an instrument to serve this purpose, and for this reason it deserves our strongest condemnation. this position is inseparable from the vote rejecting this report. despite some of the rapporteur's good intentions and some genuine concerns about development cooperation and support policy, the report cannot dissociate itself from the fund and the objectives which led to its creation. in this context, everything else is secondary, including some of the considerations we support, whether in relation to the european development fund or to official development aid, particularly when we reject their transformation into instruments for the control of migration. the trust fund is nothing more than that, denoting an unbearable neo-colonial vision and ambition, which we reject in the strongest possible terms. the report does not and would not be expected to. it is noted that the report complains about the lack of clarity and transparency of the criteria and the amount of funding for 'civil society' under the trust fund.
‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is to help promote stability in these regions and to contribute to better management of migration. more specifically, the eusf aims to tackle the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. the eusf is intended to be a development instrument that brings together resources from a range of donors in order to enable the european union to respond rapidly, flexibly, complementarely, transparently and collectively to an emergency situation in its various forms. it is therefore necessary to continue to support african countries in their development. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is to help promote stability in these regions and to contribute to better management of migration. more specifically, the euff aims to address the root causes of forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. i believe that the provision of funds should be more rapid and flexible in emergency situations and combine several sources of funding to deal with the migration and refugee crisis in its multiple dimensions. i agree that transparency, communication and visibility of euff projects are of the utmost importance for the dissemination of results and the involvement and awareness of european private stakeholders, regional and local authorities, ngos and civil society in order to create conditions for greater involvement and facilitate the participation of member states. i think it is essential to ensure strict monitoring of the application of the provisions on redistribution, substitution in the countries of origin and the financial commitments of the member states, with particular attention to human rights.
‒ created at the valletta summit on migration, the european union emergency trust fund for africa (eutf) has as its main objectives to tackle the root causes of irregular migration and to promote stability in the regions. this report raises questions about the financing, implementation and monitoring of the fund. the same report underlines the interest of all member states in honouring their commitments in terms of contributions so that the eusf can be implemented fully and comprehensively. the report also stresses the need for constant monitoring of the implementation of the eusf. in this context, i stress that the primary focus on migration is imperative and that the fund should give priority to conflict prevention, the implementation of the rule of law and good governance. because i consider that a transparent, accountable and politically coherent definition and implementation of the use of funds such as the eusf is of great importance, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour, as the main objective of the eusf is to help promote stability in african regions and to contribute to better management of migration. more specifically, the eusf aims to tackle the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. the eusf is intended to be a development instrument that brings together resources from a range of donors in order to enable the european union to respond rapidly, flexibly, complementarely, transparently and collectively to an emergency situation in its various forms. the commission's monitoring of the use and allocation of euff financial resources should be systematic and strengthen parliament's powers of control over euff. it is also the responsibility of the council and the commission to report regularly on the concrete actions taken by the eu and the african states in using these funds and on the results achieved.
‒ the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) was established at the valletta conference in november 2015. given the current and unprecedented levels of illegal and irregular migration, the euff was established as a way to support the most affected african countries, help restore stability and strengthen cooperation between africa and the eu on issues such as migration management, security and development. the eusf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, displacement and migration in three specific regions: the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad and, finally, north africa. in order to achieve these objectives, four priority sectors have been identified to be addressed: economic programmes, resilience, migration management and stability and governance. this report raises some issues concerning the eusf, calling for its transparency, accountability, ownership and political coherence, in particular in the definition and implementation of projects, as well as full respect for the principles of sustainable development. it shall also carry out a critical assessment of the budgetary aspects, listing its shortcomings and urging stakeholders to assume their commitments and responsibilities. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general content of this own-initiative report.
‒ the objective of the fund is to help promote stability in these regions and to contribute to better management of migration. the amount of the eu contribution to the fund: eur 1,8 billion, although in april 2016 it was still only eur 81,71 million. firstly, it is regrettable that the member states' contributions remain very low and that there are delays in payments, and member states are urged to honour their commitments. we monitor the need for development aid. we do not follow this logic of trust funds which are outside the eu budget and which, in many cases, lack transparency in their management and implementation.
‒ i voted in favour of the corrao report on the eu trust fund for africa, as i consider the role of this fund to be fundamental in helping to promote stability in the region and to contribute to better management of migration. i would also stress the fund's mission to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunity, equal opportunities, security and development. i regret, however, that trust funds are not subject to scrutiny by the european parliament, given the added value of this institution in evaluating the management of funds in the field of humanitarian assistance.
‒ balancing work, personal and family life is now an indisputable right in modern societies, contributing to personal well-being and benefiting society at large through a much-desired increase in productivity and birth rates. i support this report, as i believe that further progress is still needed in this area, and i encourage both the european institutions and the member states to integrate these concerns in their policies, with particular attention to gender, age, the status of the family and the new social realities, defending those who are most disadvantaged or even excluded from existing legislation and policies. we need to combat discrimination in the workplace, regulate parental leave fairly, combat stress in managing work and personal life, support women in their empowerment in working life, recognise the work of people who devote their time to caring for others and recognise the role of professionally active grandparents. a just and humanistic society does not tolerate the piecemeal and charitable treatment of a recognized fundamental right to balance work, personal and family life.
in writing. ‒ women are increasingly more qualified, even outperforming men in terms of academic qualifications, although they are still underrepresented on the labour market or working in jobs below their skill level. on the other hand, widespread low wages, greater concentration in part-time work and longer career breaks for caring for others (children and/or dependent family members) contribute to a higher risk of poverty and social exclusion for women, as well as to a large gender gap (40%) in pensions. i therefore agree with the need to modernise the framework for work-life balance at union level.
‒ the increasing deregulation of the organization and of industrial relations, which is an integral part of neoliberal policies and, in particular, of the so-called austerity policies (the latter being a concentrated expression of the former), has a strongly disruptive effect on the balance between professional life and private and family life. this balance is a fundamental right and is linked to a number of issues, such as the aforementioned regulation of work, gender equality, active ageing and parental rights. the report proposes measures which we can support. examples include criticism of the prospect that more and longer working hours are beneficial to the economy in terms of increased productivity, or even criticism of the effects of 'austerity' policies, or even reference to collective bargaining and important positions agreed within the ilo. however, this report is entirely in line with eu policies and its neoliberal orientation. see the reference to the need for flexibility in working relationships and working hours, or the promotion of 'smart jobs' and teleworking as a way of promoting better work-life balance. this is an approach which is not essential and which we do not follow, because it does not contribute to solving the problem, but rather the opposite.
‒ the report highlights important measures on labour market conditions favourable to work-life balance, such as: the importance of a coherent policy framework supported by collective bargaining and collective agreements to allow for a better work-life balance; the importance of 'adequately' paid parental leave which is more balanced for both parents; the importance of having access to affordable, adequate and quality early childhood education and care, dependent care and high quality social services; the recognition that work-life balance policies will not in themselves produce benefits for workers unless accompanied by policies to improve living conditions, alongside policies to promote and promote cultural, recreational and sporting activities, among others. even if i take into account that much work still needs to be done in the field of social inequalities and the living conditions of workers, for the reasons i have outlined above, i voted in favour.
‒ according to the latest eurostat data, the birth rate in the european union has been declining over the past few decades. the union is facing unprecedented demographic challenges to which member states must respond. family-friendly policies are important to stimulate positive demographic trends, as precarious employment and poor working conditions have negative effects on family planning. achieving a true work-life balance requires sound, cross-cutting, coherent, structured and comprehensive policies that provide effective incentives and measures to promote work-life balance, the possibility to provide care and to spend time with family and friends, and the possibility to pursue leisure activities and personal development. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to achieve a true balance between personal and professional life. only then will it be possible to combat low birth rates and achieve a balance with regard to gender equality. i therefore think it is important that the commission should put forward again the proposal on maternity leave, which was blocked by the council. maternity and paternity leave and parental leave will only be effective if complemented by horizontal measures of inclusion and support for birth, which are competences at member state level.
‒ this report demonstrates the importance the union, and in particular parliament, attaches to work-life balance. the rapporteur believes that the modernisation of the regulatory framework which provides for this balance is necessary, mainly because of social changes in demography and public health, as well as the new reality of the labour market. the reconciliation of a citizen's personal and professional life not only contributes to productivity in his job, but also promotes well-being in society and provides conditions for raising children and starting families. thus, the promotion of policies to increase gender equality in the labour market, the improvement of parental leave schemes and increased attention by member states to this issue are crucial factors in achieving the objectives set out in this framework. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important for citizens to have time outside working hours for personal development, family and leisure.
in writing. ‒ today, work-life balance is recognised as a fundamental right. however, progress remains needed to ensure that everyone can successfully reconcile the various aspects of their lives. the aim of this report is to promote equality between men and women in employment and other areas of life, and also to give children the opportunity to reach their full potential by providing them with high-quality education and care and access to leisure, cultural and sporting activities and time with their parents. it is essential to tackle labour, child and women's poverty, to better harness people's skills and abilities and to take measures to address demographic challenges. i voted in favour.
‒ over the last few decades, work-life balance has been recognised as a fundamental right. although some initiatives have already been taken, both at european and national level, progress remains to be made in this area. the lack of work-life balance solutions influences people's decisions and there will always be one of these areas that is at risk of being affected. the measures currently in force in the member states are aggravating the situation, with a negative impact on the well-being of all people, as well as on their participation in the labour market and productivity. solid action is needed at both european and national level, including legislative measures on different types of licences, combined with non-legislative measures such as awareness and information campaigns, monitoring and follow-up mechanisms. the absence of paid leave schemes for fathers compared to those for mothers, or the insufficient incentives to take such leave, contributes to inequality between men and women in the distribution of work and family obligations between women and men, rather than promoting equality.
‒ over the last few decades, work-life balance has been recognised as a right. although some initiatives have already been taken both at european level and in the member states, progress remains to be made in this area and hence the importance of this document and this discussion. it is important to mainstream work-life balance into policies from the outset, to ensure that everyone is supported at different stages throughout their lives and can actively participate in the labour market and society. this report supports the commission's initiative to increase women's participation in the labour market by modernising and adapting the current eu legal and political framework to the needs of the modern labour market, allowing for greater sharing of responsibilities between men and women. it also aims to promote gender equality in employment and other areas of life, but also to give children full access to high-quality early childhood education and health care. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the content of the text and with the commission's initiative.
‒ the creation of measures to improve work-life balance is a matter of financial and social factors and it is important to ensure that this balance also promotes increased productivity and competitiveness in all public or private enterprises. the personal satisfaction of workers usually promotes an increase in their productivity, because a worker who is satisfied with his workplace performs his duties better than otherwise. we must continue to work to ensure that equal treatment and equal rights for women and men are also a reality in the workplace. at the same time, it must be ensured that work provides time for children to be with both parents. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report which promotes and defends the existence of work arrangements in which there is a real balance between work and personal life. in this way we will be contributing to an increase in the quality of life for the majority of european workers.
in writing. ‒ over the past few decades, work-life balance has been recognised as a fundamental right. while some initiatives have already been taken at both european and national level, progress remains to be made in this area, in particular to ensure that everyone can achieve a satisfactory reconciliation of personal and professional life. these are certainly beautiful words, which are even necessary in the face of the dramatic decline in birth rates. however, the fundamental issue is omitted, which is basically about the exploitation of labour, which is accentuated by the growing dominance of neoliberal policies in the eu and its member countries. it is not possible to continue to hear these empty words, which are certainly well-intentioned, while at the same time promoting the complete devaluation of industrial relations and collective bargaining. it encourages precariousness and low wages. and then these souls are amazed at the fact that young people are putting off more and more, if not forever, the constitution of their own family.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr zdanoka and mr blinkeviciute, because i believe that, given the new demographic and socioeconomic challenges we are facing, a new policy package is needed to promote work-life balance. in 2014, 5.1 million children were born in the eu-28, corresponding to a gross birth rate of 10.1. this fall in the birth rate in the union has been accentuated by the crisis, as unemployment, job insecurity, uncertainty about the future and discrimination in the labour market are causing young people, in particular young women workers, to postpone parenthood in order to remain active in an increasingly competitive labour market. i would particularly stress the call for incentives to be created for businesses and selfemployed people to ensure that people are not penalized economically for having children and that legitimate career aspirations do not conflict with family planning.
madam president, the un summit on refugees and migrants will be a test of cooperation to respond to the greatest global challenge we face: that of millions of people forced to leave their countries in search of protection and dignity. european governments - some more than others - have failed to live up to their moral and legal obligations as members of the european union. refugees and migrants are suffering at the doorsteps of europe and on european soil horrendous human rights violations, especially women and unaccompanied minors. thousands surrender their lives to trafficking networks and other organized crime, which our governments thrive on by refusing to open legal and safe pathways for those in need of asylum or work. this is not only a question of credibility, but of the very security of europe. the relocation process decided by the european council is a milestone, only 3 000 out of 160 000 people have been resettled. for six months now, a group of 470 yazidis near idomeni, greece, have been desperate to reach portugal, which has reiterated that it can receive them. the eu-turkey pact encourages the opening of new business routes for traffickers and involves deporting people who are barred from even applying for asylum or family reunification. as if that were not enough, the union wants to replicate the model with regimes that cause oppression and misery for refugees and migrants - like the one in ethiopia that is brazenly killing ethiopians, madam high representative, in the face of the complicit silence of the european union. building walls, as announced in calais, is not only a waste of resources, it is ineffective and goes against everything that the european union stands for.
representatives of the member states and the european union are making a very significant contribution to this summit. the silence! the silence of shame of those who bear responsibility for destabilization and war, particularly in the north african and middle eastern regions. the silence of shame of those who tolerate and sponsor walls on the borders of various european countries, of which hungary and france are recent examples. the shameful silence of those who are responding militarily to a very serious humanitarian crisis, of those who have allowed the mediterranean to become a veritable mass grave. over 10,000 dead in three years! the shameful silence of those who trample human rights on european soil every day has created real concentration camps. shame on you for the xenophobic and racist agenda you have promoted and which fuels waves of discrimination, the resurgence of the far right and fascism! they are refusing to give lessons on human rights or on responding to the plight and needs of refugees, because they have none to give!
madam president, this report does not bring anything new to the external relations of the european union with third countries. in anticipation of a possible free trade agreement and the neocolonial instrument of economic exploitation that the union has spread throughout the world, the strategy of interference and interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign country is well designed: democratic reforms, institutional policies of economic and social development, security and defence policy, purportedly combating terrorism, and reforms for research, education and culture. reforms, it is said, to transform a country by making financing conditional on the policies and ideological concepts of the union, by liberalizing the economy and by further imposing the exploitation and impoverishment of workers and the people at the expense of the squandering of the wealth of that country. a submissive agenda, which is brazenly compared to a marshall plan, is a clear indictment of the real objectives of this relationship, which is so obviously unbalanced.
madam president, the european union is far from being an example in raising the rights of workers. on the contrary, its class nature and its ideological, capitalist matrix have imposed legislation, recommendations, policies and a vast array of instruments of exploitation which, over the decades, have contributed to deepening the so-called social dumping. free movement without equal labour rights between countries is an example of this. the promotion of precariousness by attacking collective bargaining or the abuse of temporary work, validating this expedient for occupying permanent posts and sanctioned by the commission itself , the assault on wages and labour rights in the name of sacred competitiveness and productivity, the facilitation of the relocation of companies also within the territory of the european union and the endless benefits to the large multinationals are reasons that require a break with the policies of the european union and that require the development of policies of economic and social progress, as the only way to combat inequalities.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. mr president, this economic partnership agreement with the six southern african countries of the cadc community has come a long way, but the result is overall positive and deserves the support of this parliament, as the committee on development has concluded in the opinion for which i am rapporteur. firstly, this agreement is necessary to comply with the rules of the world trade organisation. without it, african countries would be less protected in their trade with europe. secondly, it is an agreement which seeks to be fair and is therefore asymmetrical and gradual: the european union is committed to the protection of the most sensitive sectors of the economy of developing countries, including safeguards for industry, agricultural markets and food security. thirdly, this agreement has a sustainable development chapter with clear commitments on labour rights and environmental rights. not everything is perfect, of course, but i think we can say that the end result is, in fact, positive. the challenge now is in good implementation and effective monitoring, and this will only exist with the effective involvement of civil society. we welcome the commitments made here by the commissioner, but this parliament expects more than words and will not fail to monitor this process itself and ensure that this agreement is properly implemented, in the interests of our partner countries in africa but also in the interests of the values of the european union's trade agenda.
mr president, i also greet the commissioner. in a recent report, the iucn said that with an 80 percent decline in the last few generations, four of the six great apes are one step closer to extinction. with the accelerated loss of biodiversity that has been witnessed in recent decades, more rigorous and consequential action is needed. in the heart of europe there are deplorable cases of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, the notorious iuu fishing. the cases of sturgeon and eel, specifically glass eel, are striking. when we distribute yellow and red cards all over the world, we do not prevent, to our embarrassment, iuu fishing from spreading in the european union. the new european wildlife trafficking action plan is important and must be implemented in all its objectives. cites needs to be strengthened and cases of corruption and illegal trafficking must be dealt with.
mr president, europe must remain a means whereby european citizens can keep control of their lives in a globalised world, and for this we need a roadmap with better european solutions. with your speech you have made a remarkable contribution in this direction, and the european parliament supports the adoption of very clear position exactly with this purpose. we would now like the european council to deliver at the upcoming bratislava summit, but let me tell you that, at the heart of this roadmap, we should have a strong social pillar, making sure that all european citizens can count on a common set of social standards on working conditions and social protection. this social pillar should entail powerful instruments to deliver on the social standards. we believe that the european union must become, again, an engine for upward economic and social convergence and, as the law has delivered on cohesion policies, i believe that you should also deliver on completing the economic and monetary union.
mr president, mr juncker, just yesterday business europe, the confederation of europe's large employers, presented its specifications for the next european summit. it does not take a wizard to guess that the conclusions of the summit will contain all the demands of the great european capital, as is the case at all european summits and councils, as was the case here today with your speech. this is the nature of the european union and its institutions; it is these interests, and not others, that it defends. the people, those who stand up for their right to a future, to jobs, wages and incomes and to their sovereignty, are the ones who are left to be threatened and blackmailed. the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world. the european union must be defeated, because the europe of juncker and barroso, goldman sachs and luxleaks will never be the europe of the workers and the people who earn their living by selling their labour. this is the crystal-clear, raw truth that will one day blow up in your face.
madam president, let us talk about the state of the union, but let us talk about the concrete, and not continue to make lists of generalities. germany has been breaching the 6% external surplus threshold since 2007 and was already warned in 2013. germany ignored it and what they did was increase the surpluses to record levels. however, we all know that there will never be sanctions against germany. why would you do that? because germany is germany. france had a budget deficit of 3.5% in 2015 and will continue to breach the deficit limit in 2016, and we all know that there will be no sanctions for france. why would you do that? because france is france. portugal has undergone one of the most painful adjustment processes in the european union and, according to the european commission, will reduce the deficit to below the legal limit. however, we are all still discussing a shameful process of sanctions against portugal, particularly in terms of cuts in european funds. why, mr president? because portugal is portugal. this is the state of the union that the president ignored in his speech. but tell me something, mr president, are you not ashamed?
madam president, mr president of the european commission, i would like to congratulate you on your speech, in which you have addressed the main points of the european union's priorities and, in particular, the concrete measures that are needed. there is, however, one question i must ask, which is this: is very concerned about populism and even euroscepticism; however, what we see in the news, in the rumours and behind the scenes in the european institutions is that there is talk of the possibility of suspending and cutting structural funds to portugal and spain. now, countries that have made enormous sacrifices and are fully available to meet the targets should not be sanctioned in this way. if the commission has considered that the portuguese state should not be sanctioned, it must also consider that the portuguese people, companies, citizens and universities should not be penalised for this suspension of funds. this will only increase the populism and the strength of those who are against integration and the european project in portugal and spain.
in writing. in the debate on the state of the union, jean-claude juncker identified three major priorities for the coming year and again drew attention to the importance of the issue of refugees, a real challenge to the capacity to affirm the civilizational values that europe claims. in his speech, the president of the european commission set out the roadmap for the coming year: safeguarding the european social model by rejecting dogmatic interpretations of the stability and growth pact and the budget treaty; guaranteeing the security of european citizens by creating new defence mechanisms, naturally linked to nato but with a european character; and promoting the conclusion of trade agreements between the european union and other countries or regions, in order to have a decisive influence on the regulation of globalisation. it is now important to move from words to deeds. in view of this speech by the president of the european commission, and after the removal of the sanctions, it is absurd that the possibility of suspending community funds to be channelled to portugal and spain should still be considered. i am sure that the socialist group will be at the forefront of the fight against this possibility, which would only weaken the european project.
in writing. i stress the importance of the annual state of the union debate and congratulate president juncker on his speech. i couldn't agree more that we need more solidarity at all levels. but let me highlight what i said about immigration policy: we need to take specific action to protect unaccompanied children who come to our shores. it was at least over 90,000 in 2015. according to europol, more than 10 000 people have disappeared on our continent this year alone. but let 's be clear: we have many thousands trapped in greece. let's not forget these kids, too. i fully agree that we need a coordinated european approach to the conflict in syria. but if it is true that only then will we begin to deal with the problems at their source, it seems to me unlikely that a new fund will solve anything. how much of the promised money have we managed to funnel into the trust fund for africa? how much of the promised deal with turkey have we managed to salvage? very little. mr president, national governments are required to honour their commitments, but i do not think that the european commission can resign from its role simply by putting proposals on the table.
in writing. ‒ switzerland, like the eu member states, benefits from the internal market and its enlargements, as highlighted in switzerland's analysis of the consequences of terminating the bilateral agreements. there is no doubt that both croatia and switzerland will benefit from the signing of this protocol iii, which will bring them political, economic and cultural advantages, thanks to a wider internal market with free movement as a fundamental element. i voted yes.
‒ the negotiation of the initial eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons, signed in 2000, was supported by us for several reasons, including the fact that more than 100,000 portuguese migrants work in switzerland, including many thousands of seasonal workers. the inclusion of croatia in this agreement, which provides for a 7-year period during which each country (switzerland and croatia) can mutually restrict the movement of people and goods, is only a consequence of the country's accession to the eu. this does not alter our initial approval of this agreement, which was based on the same arguments of facilitating the fixing of the date, based on questions concerning the rights of workers from other countries and their family members. we voted yes.
‒ this proposal constitutes the legal instrument necessary for the conclusion of a protocol to the agreement on the free movement of persons between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the proposed protocol incorporates the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and provides that the european union shall provide the authentic version of the agreement in the new official language of the eu. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ switzerland is the eu's most important partner, given its geographical and cultural proximity, and especially its political and economic importance. after switzerland's refusal to accede to the eea agreement, and in mutual recognition of the vital importance of cooperation, a number of bilateral agreements were negotiated, covering the free movement of persons, land and air transport, agriculture and research, as well as technical barriers to trade and public procurement. this protocol to the agreement on the free movement of persons provides that, for a period of seven years from the entry into force of the protocol, switzerland may restrict access to the labour market for croatian citizens (quotas, priority for local workers, control of working conditions and wages). during the last two years of this transitional period, restrictions shall be approved by the eu-switzerland joint committee. i believe that the eu, like switzerland, benefits from the internal market and its enlargements, and that both croatia and switzerland will benefit from the signing of this protocol iii, which will bring them political, economic and cultural advantages thanks to a wider internal market with free movement as a fundamental element.
‒ the european union and switzerland are important partners and have close ties through a large number of agreements. the agreement on the free movement of persons concluded under the first bilateral agreements gave the citizens of the contracting parties the right to enter, reside and take up employment in their respective territories by mutually abolishing most restrictions. the accession of croatia to the eu in 2013 led to the conclusion of protocol iii, with a view to extending the agreement on free movement. however, the process was blocked due to the "anti-mass emigration" referendum in february 2014. on 4 march 2016, protocol iii was finally signed, providing for rules allowing switzerland to set limits on access to the labour market for croatian citizens. i believe that both croatia and switzerland will benefit from the signing of this protocol iii, which will bring them political, economic and cultural advantages, thanks to a wider internal market with free movement as a fundamental element. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour, as i consider this to be another positive step in the process of european integration. this protocol allows, within the time limits set, to deepen the spirit of union and cohesion among the peoples of europe, particularly between croatia and switzerland. switzerland will maintain progressive annual quotas so that it can gradually open its labour market to croatian workers. croatia should be entitled to introduce the same quantitative limits for swiss nationals during the same periods.
‒ simply review the protocol on the free movement of persons with switzerland, taking into account the accession of croatia. it is envisaged that for a period of seven years switzerland may restrict access to the labour market for croatian citizens (quotas, priority for local workers, control of working conditions and wages).
‒ the agreement on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the european union was signed in 2000 and entered into force in 2002. subsequently, in april 2006, this agreement was extended to the 10 new member states in accordance with protocol i to the agreement. following the accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007, the agreement was corrected once again, with the so-called protocol ii coming into force. with the recent accession of croatia in 2013, discussions on what has now been referred to as protocol iii have been initiated. finally, and after some procedural issues were overcome, the two parties signed in march 2016 the now-named protocol iii, thus extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. as this is a very technical procedure following the accession of a new member state to the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the negotiation of the initial agreement, signed in 2000, was supported by us, because of the particular interest of the fact that more than one hundred thousand portuguese emigrants work in switzerland, including many thousands of seasonal workers. the inclusion of croatia, with a seven-year period during which each country can restrict the movement of people and goods, is only a consequence of its entry into the eu. this does not alter our initial approval of this agreement, on the same grounds of facilitating the fixing of the rights of workers from other countries and their families.
‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tse), established by council decision 2003/174/ec, has formalised the practice of holding informal high-level meetings since 1997 in the framework of the european employment strategy and subsequently the lisbon strategy. following the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, the 2003 council decision establishing the tripartite social summit needed to be revised. the treaty of lisbon has brought about significant institutional changes which justify the revision of the decision, in particular: - institutionalised the european council and created the post of president of the european council; - recognised the role of the cst as an integral part of the eu social dialogue; - repealed article 202 of the ec treaty, which was the legal basis for adopting the 2003 decision (the council's tasks are now defined by article 16 of the eu treaty and the principles on comitology are set out in articles 290 and 291 tfeu). i voted in favour of this recommendation, which adapts the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and also revises the political framework, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ the commission does not intend at this stage to use the opportunity provided by this review to carry out a thorough reform of the functioning of the tripartite social summit. the summit has always been regarded by the social partners as a privileged forum for discussing social and employment issues at the highest level. it also provides an opportunity for the representatives of the eu institutions participating in the csf to hear the views and proposals from both sides of the social dialogue spectrum, which enables them to subsequently convey these views to the members of the european council. i agree with a proposal to adapt the existing decision to the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, while reflecting the positive results of the practical experience recently gained in the context of the cst.
‒ the participation of workers in all decisions affecting them, in the sense of defending their class interests, obviously deserves our support. despite our well-known reservations about the nature and scope of an instrument such as the tripartite social summit (jointly chaired by the european council, the council of the european union, the european commission, 10 representatives of employers and 10 representatives of workers), in the context in which its launch and implementation were considered, it has also merited our positive attention. as a consequence of the treaty of lisbon, the composition of the summit was changed. we are not opposed to the recommendation and we agree with it, provided that there is no change in the level of representation of workers and their relative weight.
‒ the tripartite summit for growth and employment is responsible for ensuring, in accordance with the treaty and with due regard for the powers of the union institutions and bodies, that there is permanent consultation between the council, the commission and the social partners. it will allow the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of social dialogue, to the different components of the eu's strategy for growth and jobs. to this end, it takes account of the work and discussions between the council, the commission and the social partners, which take place upstream in the various conciliation bodies on economic, social and employment issues. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs was set up following the lisbon european council in march 2000 with the aim of promoting high-level consultation with the european social partners. since its establishment under council decision 2003/174/ec, the summit has fulfilled its key role of ensuring high-level consultation. it has contributed positively to the development of social dialogue at union level, in the framework of the lisbon strategy over the period 2000-2010 as well as in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy. the tasks and composition of the summit should be adapted to take account of the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, in particular the creation of the office of president of the european council as provided for in article 15 teu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision on the revision of the 2003 council decision in the context of the tripartite social summit. the main changes concern the functions and members. as regards its tasks, it will have to ensure, in accordance with the treaty and with due respect for the competences of the union institutions and bodies, that there is concertation between the council, the commission and the social partners, and will have to enable the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of the social dialogue, to the various components of the union's strategy for growth and jobs. the main changes in membership concern the registration of the summit. it will now be composed of the president of the european council, the presidency of the council, the two successive presidencies, the commission and the social partners. in view of the above and the other amendments proposed for the summit, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ following the council's request for assent (as well as its provisional resolution of 15 april 2014) to the proposal for a council decision on the holding of a tripartite social summit (ssc) for growth and jobs, i voted in favour of this draft decision. the proposal, now approved, aims to review the 2003 council decision in order to comply with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty in particular in interinstitutional terms and in the functioning of the union itself , and to review the overall policy framework, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy and specifying how the csf for growth and jobs contributes to global governance. after its adoption at first reading, parliament proposed a number of amendments, notably as regards the involvement of the social partners. subsequently, the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament approved the report on the draft council decision on cst, recommending that the european parliament, in plenary, also give its consent, which was done today by a large majority and with the vote in favour of my political group.
‒ the participation of workers in all decisions affecting them, in the sense of defending their class interests, deserves our support. the tripartite social summit, bringing together the presidency of the european council, the council of the european union, the commission, 10 employers' representatives and 10 workers' representatives, has also received our positive attention. as a consequence of the treaty of lisbon, the composition of the summit was changed. we agree with the recommendation that there should be no change in the level of representation between employers and workers.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the current situation in the european union. the european parliament's participation in this summit is key as it is part of the inter-branch dialogue and its mission is to provide a continuous exchange between the social partners and the eu institutions and to ensure that the social partners contribute to the eu's economic and social strategy, areas to which parliament has contributed constructively in its capacity as co-legislator.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the future of the european union, the commission has decided to launch a new action programme on the future of the union. it also called for the standards to be adapted rapidly to scientific and technical progress, taking account of standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards). parliament and the council agreed on the general objective of the directive, which is to provide a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels.
‒ this is a second reading of a proposal for a directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. it is an eminently technical document, intended to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. the text also calls for the standards to be adapted rapidly to scientific and technical progress, taking account of standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards). the promotion of alternative fuels is also duly addressed (in particular the switch to lpg). we voted in favour.
‒ in order to ensure harmonisation at union level and to avoid distortions of competition and unequal levels of safety, the same technical requirements should be applied to the entire inland waterway network in the union and regularly updated. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ep gave its opinion and support on 15 april 2014 at first reading for a uniform application of the common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with the aim of ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. parliament and the council agreed to provide a harmonised and coherent framework in order to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels. both institutions agree to streamline the use of resources to develop technical standards and to adapt them to scientific and technical progress, using standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni. this recommendation concerns the text resulting from the negotiations between parliament and the council and was adopted by the tran committee in april 2016. this recommendation deserves my vote in favour.
‒ the revision of directive 2006/87/ec aims to establish a uniform application of the common technical requirements for inland navigation in the european union, ensuring a high level of efficiency and safety in this area. the current revision also aims at streamlining the use of resources by adapting the directive to technical and scientific progress and by respecting the standards developed by international organisations such as cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards). i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution for two reasons, among others: firstly, because, from the substantive or, if you like, the material point of view, i am in favour of the creation of a harmonized, coherent and up-to-date technical framework on the subject under discussion; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but that it should be involved in the matter of the european parliament, which is of great importance to me, and that is no less important because, from a legislative or perhaps adjectival procedural point of view, i consider the involvement of the european parliament in this matter to be of the utmost importance.
‒ parliament supported a uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union in order to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. it also called for the standards to be adapted rapidly to scientific and technical progress, taking account of standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards). however, parliament called for a periodic review of the directive every three years to assess the mechanisms for cooperation with the relevant international organisations and called for the adoption of delegated acts to introduce technical requirements for liquefied natural gas-powered vessels. in view of the above, i voted in favour of its application.
‒ the uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union is necessary to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency.
‒ the european union (eu) considers that a high level of safety and efficiency of inland navigation within the eu is necessary and has therefore supported, at first reading, the adoption of a directive capable of establishing a uniform application of the common technical requirements for this type of vessel, as well as an adaptation of the rules to scientific and technical progress, taking into account the standards used by international organisations in this sector. in the interests of consistency with other legislative acts, the european parliament has proposed the adoption of delegated acts to include technical standards for natural gas-powered vessels. following the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the ultimate objective of this directive which will allow for a rationalisation of the use of resources it is important to maintain the adaptation of technical standards through the adoption of delegated acts, and i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation for second reading with a view to the final adoption of this directive.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament and the council have agreed on the overall objective of the directive, which is to provide a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels. we are all in favour of a rationalisation of the use of resources to develop technical standards and to adapt them to scientific and technical progress, using standards developed by international organisations, in particular the european committee for the development of inland navigation standards. i am glad that the negotiations have been concluded and that the directive can be adopted. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
‒ this is a second reading of a proposal for a directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. it is an eminently technical document, intended to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. the text also calls for the standards to be adapted rapidly to scientific and technical progress, taking account of standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni (european committee for the development of inland navigation standards). the promotion of alternative fuels is also encouraged (in particular the switch to lpg). the group proposes a vote in favour, which can be accompanied.
‒ the economic partnership agreement between the eu and six southern african development community (sadc) countries, including mozambique, provides for gradual market opening measures, allowing these countries to liberalise 86% of their trade with the eu (74% in the case of mozambique) over a period of 10 years, excluding sensitive agricultural and fishery products. this regional trade agreement currently covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and provisions on trade and sustainable development. it does, however, leave the door open to negotiating new provisions on services, investment, intellectual property rights, public procurement and strengthened provisions on sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ we are facing the culmination for the countries of southern africa of a long process of blackmail. a process in which the european union did everything to impose on the states of the region, against their will and despite their resistance, free trade agreements, which it called 'economic partnership agreements' (epas). the eu's choice is a clear indication of its neo-colonialist intentions and is based on an alleged (false) obligation under the cotonou agreement. the aim of the epas was to go beyond what has been achieved in the wto in terms of trade liberalisation and deregulation. a whole arsenal of pressure was used to this end, including the use of the european development fund, as well as outright blackmail. it is noted that some countries have resisted blackmail (angola). all in the interests of the big european economic and financial groups: opening up markets, selling goods and services, exploiting raw materials and imposing an export-oriented production model, helping to bring down wages, rights and living conditions for workers. we obviously voted against it. this is not a vote against 'trade', but a vote for a different policy, one that promotes effective independence, sovereignty, cooperation, solidarity, development and social justice.
‒ this proposal implements the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 ('acp-ec partnership agreement'), which calls for the conclusion of economic partnership agreements compatible with the wto. the agreement contains provisions on cooperation, trade in goods, trade and sustainable development, customs and trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, dispute settlement, geographical indications and rules of origin. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the economic partnership agreements, which establish trade and development partnerships between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states, on the one hand, and the european union, on the other, aim to promote trade, regional integration and the progressive integration of the acp states into the world economy, as well as the sustainable development of these states. in 2014, the union concluded negotiations on an epa in the area of trade in goods with six of the 15 countries of the southern african development community (sadc): botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa. the sadc-eu economic partnership agreement has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the guarantees and flexibility mechanisms provided for in the agreement, particularly in the area of trade and sustainable development, which can help make the agreement mutually beneficial and development-friendly, ensuring policy coherence for development, provided that it is properly implemented and monitored.
‒ over the past 14 years, the european commission has been negotiating economic partnership agreements (epas) with several african countries, with the aim of moving towards reciprocal trade preferences. one of the fruits of the above-mentioned negotiations is the understanding reached by six countries of the southern african development community (sadc), also referred to as the sadc epa group, in 2014. the agreement led to the conclusion of an epa, which would highlight the objective of eradicating poverty through the establishment of trade partnerships, promoting regional integration, investment and the gradual integration of sadc countries into the global economy. the negotiated agreement presupposes access to markets of asymmetrical size, so as to better respect the interests of each of the countries involved, and makes a reference to respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. i therefore voted in favour of this regional agreement, which is aimed at promoting good trade relations with africa, a continent which today, more than ever, plays a major role in the world geopolitical and economic context.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the union concluded negotiations on an epa (economic partnership agreement) on trade in goods with six of the 15 countries of the southern african development community: botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa. the rapporteur recommends that the sadc-eu economic partnership agreement be approved. this epa has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration. however, the trade and partnership agreement can only be a small part of a wider strategy. the sadc states should implement trade and development-friendly national policies and carry out structural reforms. another element to consider is a regulatory framework that attracts investment. these countries should also consider the possibility of using the potential of the epa, going beyond trade in goods and including services in the future. the eu should provide support for capacity building and trade assistance, and parliament should monitor implementation and raise issues where necessary. appropriate control structures should be put in place to maximise the impact of the agreement. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ the asymmetric nature of the agreement establishes positive discrimination in favour of sadc epa partners, ensuring duty-free access to the eu market, while at the same time mutually eliminating barriers to almost all trade, ensuring wto compatibility and promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance. this agreement has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a recommendation on the economic partnership agreement between the european union (eu) and six countries of the southern african development community (sadc): botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland. one of the main objectives of the agreement is to liberalise 86% of these countries' trade with the eu over a period of 10 years. this regional agreement will cover trade in goods, development cooperation and certain trade-related matters relating to sustainable development. agricultural products and fisheries products, which are more sensitive, are excluded from the agreement, although the possibility of negotiating a broader scope for the agreement, which could include aspects related to services, investments, intellectual property rights and public procurement, among others, remains open. the union is the largest regional trading partner of these countries, guaranteeing them, under this agreement, access to the european market, free of quotas and customs duties, and i therefore believe that there is every interest in deepening trade relations with these countries, of which mozambique is a member. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because i am convinced of its relevance to the economies and populations of the southern african countries which are part of it and which have agreed to it. i understand that's the best deal possible right now. however, it is essential to invest in ways of printing a logic of sustainable social, environmental and economic growth, which has the right follow-up and monitoring measures. in the agricultural sector, it is essential that sanitary control measures are sufficient and effective to prevent the spread of diseases. it is also important to ensure that the agreed quotas do not represent an increased risk of imbalance in the internal market with serious consequences for prices and the outflow of european production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the economic partnership agreement with six southern african countries, including mozambique, because it is a development-oriented agreement. the trade agreement is reciprocal and therefore compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation, but is asymmetrical and gradual in nature. the southern african countries can protect their sensitive sectors from european competitors and the agreement also includes a number of safeguards for the domestic industries, agricultural markets and food safety of these partner countries. the agreement includes relatively flexible rules of origin and there is also a chapter devoted to sustainable development with commitments in the field of labour and environmental legislation. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development, i have advocated effective monitoring of the agreement, with the involvement of civil society, as well as the mobilisation of adequate resources to strengthen technical capacity and cover some of the adaptation costs that an economic transition such as this will entail. in short, provided that the agreement is properly implemented and monitored, the guarantees and flexibility mechanisms provided for in the agreement should contribute to sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ currently, all states that have not concluded an epa benefit from the eu's system of generalised preferences (gsp) or the everything but arms (eat) initiative. however, for countries that concluded an interim epa in 2007, in order to avoid market disruption and to allow sufficient time to sign and ratify the agreement, the eu adopted a market access regulation (mar), council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, as of 1 january 2008, which allowed for the early application of epas. it was subsequently decided that the ram [free access to the eu] treatment would end on 1 october 2014 for countries that had not concluded a regional agreement or had not taken the necessary measures to implement their provisional epas. the eu is seeking trade liberalisation, from which its major financial and economic groups seek to secure open markets, sell goods and services, exploit raw materials and impose an export-oriented production model in their own interests. we need a different policy that promotes effective independence, sovereignty, cooperation, solidarity, development and social justice. i therefore vote against.
‒ fisheries workers need special protection, taking into account, among other things, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels. the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors in a hazardous work environment, the unclear distinction between working, resting and leisure time and the impact on health and safety of fatigue, partly resulting from insufficient rest, as well as the prevalence of informal and atypical employment relationships and pay arrangements, including profit-sharing schemes between crew, are issues taken into account. the agreement, which i voted for, applies to all fishermen employed on board a fishing vessel registered in a member state or flying its flag and engaged in commercial fishing operations.
‒ this resolution concerns ilo convention no 188 on work in the fisheries sector. this convention, adopted in 2007, provides for a set of amendments aimed at contributing to the improvement of the conditions of workers on board, taking into account the very high accident rates in this context. the following measures are particularly important: - responsibility of owners and masters of fishing vessels for the health and safety of workers;- definition of a minimum working age and protection of young workers;- mandatory certified medical examinations;- obligation to have rest periods;- regular payment to fishermen and permission to make transfers for family members;- standards for accommodation and food;- definition of safety and health standards and provision of medical care on board;- discounts for social security;- social protection in case of illness, injury and death. taken together, the provisions of the recommendation, although of limited application, could help to solve long-standing problems in the sector. unfortunately, in the eu context, only france and estonia have signed this convention. the resolution calls for a general support, which is why we voted in favour.
‒ the purpose of this proposal is to implement the agreement on the implementation of the international labour organisation (ilo) fisheries labour convention, 2007, concluded between cogeca, etf and europêche. the commission's proposal aims to improve the living and working conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework appropriate to working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ given the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases, the hazardous working environment and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting from insufficient rest, as well as the existence of informal and atypical employment relationships and pay arrangements, i believe that fisheries workers need special protection, taking into account the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels. to date, only eight countries have ratified the ilo fisheries labour convention, of which only two eu member states (france and estonia) have done so, despite the council's decision to allow eu member states to ratify the ilo fisheries labour convention. i believe it is important that the eu and its member states ensure a leading role in promoting decent working conditions and pay in the fisheries sector. i am voting in favour of this recommendation, as i am in favour of creating a fair and equitable environment in the fisheries sector, including the fight against exploitation of fishermen, such as forced labour, trafficking and child labour.
‒ today, professional fishermen lack adequate protection in view of the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels. the high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents and the susceptibility to occupational diseases are factors which give this type of work a considerable degree of risk. the unclear distinction between working, resting and leisure time, informal and atypical pay patterns, and the impact on the health and safety of professional fishermen thus justify a revision of the ilo fisheries labour convention's standards and hermeneutics. the convention sets out guidelines for creating decent conditions for this profession. i believe that incorporating these rules into the legal order of the european union will strengthen the creation of fair and equal conditions in the fisheries sector. in this context too, i would stress the importance of strengthening the provisions on wages, social protection and social security, with the aim of guaranteeing adequate and decent income for workers and their families. i therefore take note of the foregoing and vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, considering it imperative that fisheries workers enjoy special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors in a hazardous working environment, the unclear distinction between working, rest and leisure time and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting in part from insufficient rest, as well as the prevalence of informal and atypical employment relationships and wage arrangements, including profit-sharing systems amongst crew.
‒ this proposal for a council directive aims to implement the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries organisation (europeche) on the implementation of the international labour organisation (ilo) fisheries labour convention, 2007, which was concluded in may 2012 (and amended in may 2013). workers in the fisheries sector need special protection, given the specific characteristics of their work and considering the high risks involved in their professional practice compared to other sectors. unfortunately, this ilo convention had been ratified by only 8 countries (2 member states: france and estonia). in this resolution i would like to stress the need to deepen the provisions on wages and social protection, in particular in the event of injury, accident or death, and the importance of establishing mechanisms for the implementation of this agreement, including the development of appropriate enforcement measures and inspections. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should play a leading role in promoting decent working conditions and pay in the fisheries sector.
‒ this resolution concerns ilo convention no 188 on work in the fisheries sector. this convention, adopted in 2007, provides for a set of amendments aimed at contributing to the improvement of the conditions of workers on board, taking into account the very high accident rates in this context. in the eu context, only france and estonia have signed this convention. we support it.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that all eu member states can share basic principles such as respect for the rule of law and a clear understanding of the separation of powers within each state. when one of the countries that are part of the european union calls these principles into question, it is important that the european union as a whole takes a stand. this resolution seeks to draw the attention of the polish government and, above all, to help resolve a situation which has served to sharpen the positions between the european commission and the polish government. as i consider that respect for the rule of law and the separation of powers are fundamental guarantees of a modern democratic state, and as i consider that this resolution is a clear attempt to protect these values in poland, i shall vote in favour of it. i hope that this sign will make the polish government realize that it is essential to implement the commission's recommendations.
‒ this is not the first time that parliament has spoken out about the situation in poland. since the current government took office, we have seen the degradation of the rule of law in this member state. it is clear that with each new election a change in state policies is possible and even likely. however, what is clearly happening is a change in the very nature of the state, which cannot be tolerated. we cannot tolerate the violation of freedom of the press, we cannot tolerate the violation of the right to privacy and the unprecedented restriction of freedom, we cannot tolerate the independence of the judiciary being called into question and we cannot tolerate the violation of women's rights. all this is at stake in poland. it is clear that we need a constructive approach and the union must promote a productive dialogue with the national authorities. but it is clear that the house of european citizens, including the polish people, cannot remain indifferent and has a duty to exercise its powers in defence of our common values.
‒ the polish government should cooperate with the european commission and reach a compromise with the other polish parties to resolve the constitutional crisis that is endangering democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in the country. recent events in poland, such as the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal (tc), threaten democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in the country. issues relating to women's rights are also a cause for concern. i welcome the european commission's determination to pursue a constructive and productive dialogue with the polish government with a view to finding rapid and concrete solutions to the systemic threats to the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in poland and its latest developments, resulting from the rise to power of ultraconservative and reactionary forces. the attacks on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and workers take many forms, such as political persecution and anti-communist laws, such as the one banning communist symbols in that country. this is a situation which is conspicuously omitted in this resolution. we cannot ignore the emergence of far-right and nazi-fascist forces in the reactionary, racist, xenophobic and anti-democratic nature of the eu and its policies. this resolution is tainted with hypocrisy. one thing is just criticism and concern about the attacks on democracy, freedom and the rights of peoples. it is quite another thing for the eu to take the role of judge and champion of democracy and human rights. it is intolerable, when its true anti-democratic and anti-social nature, as well as the way in which it disrespects and violates human rights, is now clearly visible. it is up to each people to decide what measures and struggles to defeat those who attack their rights. it is up to parliament to express solidarity with those who are fighting for democracy in poland. we abstained on this resolution because we are in solidarity with this struggle and because we defend the democratic and sovereign rights of the polish people.
‒ it is essential to ensure that the common european values enshrined in article 2 teu and the polish constitution are fully respected and that fundamental rights as defined in the charter of fundamental rights are safeguarded. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ considering that the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and that these values are common to the member states, it is stressed that it is essential to ensure that the common european values enshrined in article 2 teu and the polish constitution are fully respected and that fundamental rights as defined in the charter of fundamental rights are safeguarded. the european union therefore reiterates its position on the situation in poland, in particular the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, which threatens democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in poland. other concerns expressed include the fact that, to date, no compromise solution has been found and the recommendations of the venice commission have not been implemented; it also regrets that the polish government refuses to publish all the judgments of the constitutional tribunal. i voted in favour of this report.
‒ it is essential to ensure that european values are fully respected and that fundamental rights, as defined in the charter of fundamental rights, are safeguarded. the situation in poland, in particular with regard to the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, endangers democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. poland should take into account the recommendations made with regard to: the law on the media, ensuring the provision of independent, impartial and credible content; the law amending the law on the police, taking into account their disproportionate interference with the right to respect for private life; the law amending the criminal code, taking into account the need to respect the eu acquis on procedural rights as well as the fundamental right to a fair trial; the law amending the law on the civil service, taking into account the serious risk of politicisation of the polish administration; the law on combating terrorism, taking into account the right to freedom of expression; and other issues of concern as they may constitute violations of eu law and fundamental human rights, including women's rights.
the situation in poland is the result of the rise to power of ultraconservative and reactionary forces. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the political persecution and the ban on communist symbols in that country are a serious expression of this. we cannot dismiss the emergence of these and other far-right and nazi-fascist forces from the reactionary, racist, xenophobic and anti-democratic nature of the policies of the european union itself and from a continuing strategy of crushing the sovereignty of the peoples. we condemn these situations and policies in the strongest terms and we denounce them systematically. this resolution is tainted with hypocrisy. the right criticism and concern about attacks on democracy, freedom and the rights of peoples are not compatible with gross interference in sovereign countries, since sovereignty is also a democratic right.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on recent developments in poland because i agree that the european parliament's position is needed, urging the polish government to change course and to ensure that european rule of law rules are fully respected. the conflict over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal and the non-publication of judgments delivered by the constitutional tribunal, as well as the initiative to introduce a total ban on abortion, are of particular concern. the resolution presented is not intended to ostracize the polish people but to urge the polish executive to cooperate with the european commission in realigning its political programme with the eu's founding principles which are common to all its member states by giving it a three-month deadline to implement them fully.
in writing. - this report on the european union's relations with tunisia deserves my vote in favour, because, as i have argued in this parliament, this was the country where the arab spring began and is so far the only successful example of this historic event. the consolidation of tunisian democracy is fundamental to the stabilization of the whole region and this report is careful to emphasize the need for strong support from the european union. i consider it extremely important to consolidate democracy in tunisia, taking into account respect for human rights and also taking care to involve civil society organisations, and its inclusion in this report also contributed to my vote in favour.
‒ tunisia is a key partner of the european union in the european neighbourhood policy, but also in the fight against terrorism, in resolving the refugee crisis and in stabilising the region, especially with regard to libya. i would remind you that there are over a million displaced libyans in tunisia who are without access to basic infrastructure, because they are mostly in former refugee camps. i am also concerned about the fragile state of the tunisian economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism and foreign investment, as the high level of unemployment is exploited by radical organisations such as the islamic state to recruit young people. any approach to eu-tunisia relations must take this reality into account. i agree with the priorities set out in the report, but i particularly follow the recommendations to abolish the death penalty, to eradicate the practice of torture of detained citizens, to decriminalise homosexuality, to respect freedom of expression and the press, to conclude a free trade agreement with a programme of macro-financial assistance, to promote public administration reforms and to combat corruption, to strengthen cooperation in the field of security and to give priority to programmes to support youth and youth employment. i therefore support the report.
‒ the process of peaceful democratic transition in tunisia is a success story in the arab world and its consolidation is fundamental for the stability of the entire region and, as a direct consequence, for the security of europe. tunisia is currently facing a difficult socioeconomic situation as well as security challenges stemming mainly from the situation in libya, and is heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and the export of products to the eu. i therefore support the mobilisation and better coordination by the union and the member states of considerable technical and financial resources to provide concrete support to tunisia.
‒ the report addresses eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context, focusing on the following aspects: political and institutional reforms, economic and social development, security and defence policy, mobility, research, education and culture. the unstable situation in tunisia today is inseparable from the policy of aggression pursued by the major european powers in the region, a policy which is clearly demonstrated in libya. the instability of this country has naturally contributed to the situation in tunisia, with terrorist attacks and problems at its borders. the need to combat terrorism is the reason given to a 'technocratic' government to limit the civil and political rights of tunisians. in tunisia, for example, secular and democratic associations have been closed down and the mobility of the population has been limited. popular leaders have been assassinated. all this is inseparable from the progressive alignment with eu policies and guidelines on security and defence. the main objective of this report is to deepen this alignment. pressures for the deregulation of trade between the eu and tunisia are a significant example of this, while issues such as the need for debt cancellation are avoided. we voted against it.
‒ tunisia is one of the priority countries under the european union's neighbourhood policy. the process of peaceful democratic transition in tunisia is a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is fundamental for the stability of the whole region and, as a direct consequence, for the security of europe. the serious social and economic situation in tunisia and the historic democratic transition in that country call for a much more ambitious eu-tunisia partnership, which goes beyond the measures traditionally adopted. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ tunisia is one of the priority countries under the european union's neighbourhood policy. its process of peaceful democratic transition is a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is fundamental to the stability of the whole region and, as a direct consequence, to the security of europe. tunisia is currently facing a difficult socioeconomic situation as well as security challenges, mainly resulting from the situation in libya. the tunisian economy is heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and the export of products to the eu, and the economy can only thrive if democracy can continue to develop. i am in favour of deepening the eu-tunisia partnership with more ambition, beyond the measures traditionally adopted, in order to allow for greater absorption capacity in tunisia and to bring stability to democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption, economic development and employment in the region.
‒ the european project is not limited to solidarity between member states, but also includes solidarity between the union and its neighbours, especially those experiencing periods of greatest need. tunisia, one such neighbour and partner, has been making efforts towards a peaceful transition to a democratic political regime, but is currently experiencing a period of increased difficulty in external security, not only because of its geographical proximity to unstable libya, but also because it has been the target of several terrorist attacks in recent years. at the same time, tunisia's external security challenges are clearly linked to economic/financial challenges, as the tunisian economy is heavily dependent on tourism and foreign investment. this situation poses serious risks to the process of consolidating democracy in that mediterranean state and, consequently, to its relationship with the union. in order to understand what has just been said, both in the premises and in the conclusions, the report in question proposes a package of technical and financial aid to tunisia. in that sense, my vote could not but be in favour.
‒ the european union considers that tunisia is one of the priority countries in the european union's neighbourhood policy, stresses the challenges and threats facing the country in consolidating its democratic process, especially in implementing the necessary reforms in the field of social and economic development and in ensuring its security, and calls for the establishment of a genuine, comprehensive and in-depth partnership between the european union and tunisia. the participants in the deauville partnership consider that the situation in tunisia justifies the launch of a genuine 'marshall plan' with adequate funding to support the consolidation of the democratic transition and to foster investment and development in all sectors of economic and social life in the country. the eu welcomes the good cooperation between tunisia and its neighbours, as demonstrated by the signing of a trade agreement, and stresses the importance of respect for human rights in the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. the union also stresses that the relaunch of the political process of integration within the framework of the arab maghreb union could be particularly appropriate to ensure security and strengthen cooperation throughout the region. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ tunisia is one of the priority countries under the eu's european neighbourhood policy and a good example in the process of peaceful democratic transition. it is a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is fundamental to the stability of the whole region and to the security of europe. we must continue to insist on the importance of respect for human rights and the need to create mechanisms to monitor respect for fundamental freedoms and to strengthen the role of civil society organisations. the free trade agreements should contribute to the stability of tunisia.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament calls on the european union and the member states to mobilise and coordinate substantial technical and financial resources to support tunisia in consolidating its democratic process through the necessary political reforms, particularly in the areas of security and economic and social development. i am in favour of providing this extraordinary assistance through the establishment of a deepened partnership with the european union, which will certainly strengthen the stability of tunisia in a volatile regional context where measures are needed to combat corruption and to implement an effective rule of law, to promote political stability and good governance. i agree with the rapporteur's reform proposals, which are bolder than those traditionally adopted, because only by implementing more ambitious solutions will tunisia be able to boost investment and promote its political, economic and social development, generating employment and improving the quality of its public services, with a view to achieving sustainable and inclusive growth. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the unstable situation in tunisia today is a reflection of the policy of aggression pursued by the major european powers in the region, a policy which is clearly demonstrated in libya. the instability of this country has naturally contributed to the situation in tunisia, with terrorist attacks and problems at its borders. the need to combat terrorism is used to justify a technocratic government's attempt to restrict the civil and political rights of tunisians. in tunisia, for example, secular and democratic associations have been closed down and the mobility of the population has been limited. popular leaders have been assassinated. we do not deny the need to help tunisia. we want to avoid the neo-colonial policies to which this eu has already accustomed us.
in the light of the recent events in tunisia, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the eu-tunisia partnership to include the following areas: i therefore stress the call in the resolution for the union and the member states to mobilise technical and financial resources to provide concrete support to the country through a genuine, comprehensive and in-depth partnership between the eu and tunisia. i would also like to highlight the proposal to set up an eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee, which will play a central role in enabling members of the european parliament and tunisian members to meet regularly and develop a structured political dialogue on democracy, human rights, the rule of law and other issues of common interest.
‒ europe was defined by its founders as a democratic space with good economic performance and a high level of social protection. priority was given to building and strengthening the internal market, but no such harmonisation exists as regards social rights. there is in fact an asymmetry between the reality of an internal market which is practically complete and very heterogeneous social rights. this paradox calls into question the very principle of fair competition between undertakings and the promotion of a social market economy by the union. this situation of unfair economic and social competition also represents an obstacle to the maintenance of a high level of social protection in europe. i support this report, which argues for the need to increase controls and inspections, both at national and european level, in application of existing legislation. i am in favour of creating a single digital document containing the social rights of all european workers. i would stress the need to revise the posting of workers directive in order to make way for the amendment of its current legal basis, as well as the regulations on the coordination of social security systems.
in writing. ‒ social rights in the eu have not been harmonised and, with the exception of certain principles enshrined in the treaty and in some directives, it was agreed that member states would remain competent in social matters. there is in fact an asymmetry between the reality of an internal market which is practically complete and very heterogeneous social rights. these situations of unfair economic and social competition also represent an obstacle to the maintenance of a high level of social protection in europe. i therefore support the proposals contained in this report.
‒ this report addresses the problem of 'social dumping' in the eu, in a logic of combating the phenomenon, the relevance of which is unquestionable, in particular in the light of the so-called austerity policies, which have promoted precarious employment, unemployment, the increase of poverty and exclusion and the reduction of labour and civil rights. the report emphasises the need to strengthen inspection, including cross-border cooperation, as a way of combating 'social dumping'. it advocates strengthening resources and manpower, alongside strengthening collective hiring and negotiation, the recovery of social rights and incomes, the promotion of work with rights, and the limitation of the posting of workers, among other measures. the report contains positive aspects, contrary to the existence of 'dumping'. but it also has negative aspects: concerns about the single market for people and goods, its promotion and defence. provisions which go against what was required in this context. there is no good in the single market is at the heart of the policies that have led to the dumping of companies in the eu and the disfigurement of work as a structuring factor in the development of states. these inconsistencies of principle and contradictions justify our abstention. it would be desirable for the report to make a clear break with the causes of social dumping in the eu.
‒ this report, although there is still a long way to go, is presented as a first step in the fight against social dumping. the report contains very positive aspects, such as the need to strengthen inspection, also at the level of crossborder cooperation, as a way of combating 'social dumping', and also the promotion of working conditions, measures to support women affected by social dumping and urgent measures in the transport sector, which are often real areas of social non-justice. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
‒ undeclared work and false self-employment can cause distortions of competition, resulting in long-term damage to social security systems, in the increase of precarious work and in the deterioration of levels of protection of workers and the quality of employment in general, and must therefore be combated. it is crucial to ensure fair and fair conditions of competition throughout the eu and to eliminate social dumping. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the question of social dumping is too often raised without a legal basis, leading to inconsistencies in the achievement of the internal market. as far as transport is concerned, we need legal clarity for carriers and a simplification of the existing regulatory framework. the fault lies not in cabotage operations but in the lack of effective control by the competent authorities and in the differences in the application of certain provisions, such as the prohibition of regular weekly rest on board vehicles in belgium and france. to do this, we need to review the establishment requirements, avoiding the transfer of activity to other member states for the purpose of deliberately avoiding taxation and labour taxation. we need more clarity in the application of existing provisions, in particular in the regulations on cabotage and access to the profession.
‒ although it is one of the most ambitious sets of legislation on social rights, the european legal order does not exhaust the range of competences in this area and should, moreover, be supported by the legal systems of the member states. the discrepancy in the exercise of the member states' powers in the area of the establishment and protection of social rights leads, however, to an asymmetry in the european project, which, despite having an internal market which is practically complete, presents a heterogeneous catalogue of social rights. it is well known that this distinction contributes to the distortion of the principle of competition between undertakings and to the promotion of a social market economy, by creating incentives to reduce labour costs and thus weakening the social standards in force in the union. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids, and for the eu to support the fight against aids. i am therefore voting in favour of this report, which seeks to correct the asymmetry between economic freedoms and social rights.
‒ given that europe has been defined as a democratic area with good economic performance and a high level of social protection, this report stresses that greater priority has been given to building and strengthening the internal market. the rapporteur stresses that social rights have not been subject to such harmonisation and that it was agreed that the member states would remain competent in social matters. it also notes a paradox which encourages competition between firms, even though european workers do not have the same social rights and obligations, and stresses the political repercussions of this asymmetry between economic freedoms and social rights. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the proposals for directives and to make proposals for the adoption of the relevant directives. the report also calls for the creation of a social protocol guaranteeing the primacy of social rights over economic freedoms and recommends setting minimum wage limits. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, social rights have not yet been harmonised and it has been agreed that member states would remain competent in social matters. there is an asymmetry between the reality of an almost completed internal market and very heterogeneous social rights. this paradox encourages competition between companies, even though european workers do not have the same social rights and obligations. several measures can close the legislative and regulatory gaps that favour 'social dumping': increased controls and inspections, both at national and european level, in application of existing legislation (human and financial means must be strengthened); the creation of a single digital document containing the social rights of all european workers; the fight against 'shell companies', in particular by imposing new obligations on official addresses; the creation of a european list of companies that have committed serious infringements, such as the use of undeclared work; the adoption of urgent measures in the transport sector, which are often true zones of social non-law; the creation of a social protocol guaranteeing the primacy of social rights over economic freedoms and the setting of minimum wage limits.
‒ this report draws attention to the dichotomy between what is meant by 'economic freedoms' and what is meant by 'social rights', and warns that this often leads to abusive practices, unfair social competition and the subversion of the social market economy, with the consequent encouragement of protectionism by member states and unilateral decision-making in the social field. however, it is certain that there is already a greater awareness and concern on the part of the european authorities regarding this problem, namely the fight against so-called 'social dumping'. in this respect, i am in favour of the need to close down some legislative and regulatory loopholes that may lead to the promotion of unfair competition within the internal market, as well as the revision of the directive on the posting of workers and the regulations on the coordination of social security systems. despite the controversy surrounding some of the proposals for the harmonization of social policies at european level and the introduction of stabilizing mechanisms, compromise solutions were found between the various political groups to achieve a balanced report, which i voted in favour of.
‒ this report aims to combat 'social dumping' in the eu. this phenomenon is relevant, particularly in the face of austerity policies, which have promoted job insecurity, unemployment, increased poverty and exclusion, which facilitates the reduction of labour and civil rights. the report emphasises the need to strengthen inspection, including cross-border cooperation, as a way of combating 'social dumping'. combining this increase in resources and staff with the reference to the strengthening of recruitment and collective bargaining, the recovery of social rights (including income security) and the promotion of work with rights and the limitation of the posting of workers, it is understood that the report has many positive points, contrary to the existence of dumping. concerns about the 'truth' of the single market for people and goods, in the interests of defending and promoting it, go, however, in the opposite direction to what was required in this context. there is no goodness in the single market. this inconsistency of principles justifies abstention in this document, which would be desirable if it affirmed a break with the causes of social dumping in the eu context.
‒ i voted in favour of the balas report because i think it is essential that the european parliament has a stronger voice in building a fairer europe so that all european workers can be covered by the same levels of social protection. despite some attempts to undermine this report, i would stress the action of the european socialist group which has managed to include the need to ensure fair and fair conditions of competition throughout the eu in order to eliminate social dumping. in this context, i would highlight the definition of social dumping in the report which, while acknowledging the lack of a legally recognised and universally accepted definition of social dumping, notes that the concept covers a wide range of intentional abusive practices which allow the development of unfair competition by illegally minimising labour and operating costs and generate violations of workers' rights and exploitation. i would also stress the call on the european commission to make a recommendation to the 28 member states that have ratified ilo convention 81 on labour inspection to ensure that labour standards are respected and workers are protected, including provisions on working time, safety and health.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable, so as to promote a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the type of financial intermediary designing or marketing them. the treatment of products offering multiple options itself still needs to be clarified. the lack of detailed guidance in the delegated regulation on the 'understanding warning' creates a serious risk of inconsistent application of this element in the key information document across the single market. i therefore have some doubts about the regulation that has been produced.
in the case of retail investment products, the retail investor protection scheme (rpp) is a specific type of protection scheme that is intended to protect the interests of retail investors. the european commission's proposal to impose more regulation on the priip sector emerged, albeit belatedly, as a response to the financial crisis. the proposed reforms are designed to protect retail investors in the financial sector who sell inappropriate and high-risk products without providing appropriate information beforehand. the key information document (kid) is a standardised information document that should inform potential investors about the potential risks, costs and future performance scenarios of the associated products. the objection arises from the fact that the delegated act adopted by the european commission contains errors in the method of calculating the future performance scenarios. in particular, it does not show, for some packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products, that investors may lose money. furthermore, there is a lack of detailed guidance in the delegated regulation on the 'understanding warning'. we voted for the objection.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable, so as to promote a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the type of financial intermediary designing or marketing them. the delegated act adopted by the commission contains errors in the method of calculating future performance scenarios and therefore does not meet the requirement, laid down in regulation (eu) no 1286/2014, to provide information that is 'accurate, correct, clear and not misleading' and, in particular, does not show, for some priips, even in an adverse scenario, and even for products that have regularly caused losses during the recommended minimum holding period, that investors could lose money. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ today, in the course of their business, retail investors are increasingly confronted with the offer of a wide range of packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products (priips). some of these products offer specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of retail investors and are often combined with insurance contracts, and can therefore be highly complex and therefore difficult to understand. in addition, information on priips is often provided to retail investors in a disorganised manner. consequently, retail investors often make investments without understanding the risks and costs associated with them, sometimes suffering unforeseen losses. it is necessary that consumer information on investment products is comparable in order to promote fair competition. the document in question is precisely in that direction. therefore, with the aim of strengthening the protection of retail investors and increasing their confidence in priips, i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the opinion that it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable, in order to promote a level playing field in the market, irrespective of the type of financial intermediary designing or marketing them. whereas furthermore the fact that the elimination of credit risk from the calculation of the risk classification of insurance products could mislead investors, such as the treatment of products offering multiple options still needs to be clarified, in particular with regard to the explicit exemption granted to ucits funds under regulation (eu) no 1286/2014;
‒ the single market legislation states that it is essential to provide consumers with the most complete and accurate information possible on packages of retail and insurance-based investment products, allowing for appropriate comparison and healthy and balanced competition in the market, irrespective of the type of financial intermediary that develops or markets them. however, the delegated regulation adopted by the european commission is not fully reliable as regards the method of calculating the future performance scenarios of these products, casting doubt on the accuracy, correctness and clarity of the information provided by it. in this context, and in view of the fact that the delegated regulation may contain unreliable and poorly detailed guidance which jeopardises the consistent application of the key information document and the fact that the rules laid down in the regulation may themselves be contrary to the spirit and purpose of the legislation in this area - which is intended to provide small investors with information on this type of investment products in a clear, rigorous and objective manner - i consider that the conditions for its application are not in place and therefore i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which objects to the entry into force of the delegated regulation.
in writing. ‒ we agree that it is of the utmost importance for investors to have reliable and accurate information and a high degree of transparency. we do not want the notion of transparency to be used to distort the very nature of the crisis. transparency helps and is welcome. but it's not believed that lack of transparency caused the financial crisis. the crisis was caused by the greed of the big institutional investors who had all the information possible, but who still didn't want to give up their profits. the problem was the speculative spiral that was going on with the banks and the other financial institutions, who knew they could take risks, because they knew and they know now that they can always rely on governments and central banks to solve this problem. no matter how much regulation they invent, nothing can erase the need for public oversight of the financial system today.
blue-card question. – mr hayes, you say that 6 000 jobs are at stake. how many people would have been saved and better treated in your hospitals in ireland? how many people could go through education and have better job opportunities if your government had the opportunity for public investment and other measures with the money that you are saving that company and many other companies with whom you made these secret tax rulings at the expense of the taxpayers in ireland, and in other countries, including mine?
i warmly congratulate you, commissioner vestager, on your courageous decision to force ireland to recover the billions it has saved apple in taxes, and i ask you to continue to investigate and prevent such agreements between member states and large companies, including in my country, portugal. this decision helps to reconcile the union and citizens who, with smes, have borne the brunt of austerity and excessive tax burden, while large national and multinational companies exploit the opacity of financial and corporate systems to exempt profits from taxation. the irish government's behaviour in appealing the decision, depriving the irish taxpayers and other states thus robbed of colossal public resources, is shameful and immoral. the truth is that two years after the luxleaks scandal, tax dumping in the european union is still rampant and unpunished, undermining the internal market and enslaving governments to serve interests that run counter to those of their citizens, their states and the union. as the european parliament has recommended in reports by the taxe and econ committees, we need reforms of fiscal convergence and transparency, which are still being blocked irresponsibly by european union governments, hidden behind the rule of unanimity. this is the case with the fourth revision of the directive on administrative cooperation, which requires the automatic exchange of information between member states on tax agreements but does not allow any public scrutiny of such agreements. we must demand, parliament and the commission, every means to call the member states to account for more tax justice for tax justice in the european union , so that we do not continue to serve the industry of organised financial and tax crime. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – yes, sometimes democratic decisions are immoral, like for instance the decision to endorse the invasion of iraq. this is an immoral decision because it calls into question the internal market, it violates loyalty among member states, it leads member states into a race to the bottom and it defrauds our taxpayers, the citizens and the smes who pay 30% more tax in the eu than big multinationals. it is absolutely immoral and it is absolutely unsound economically.
in writing. we were recently bombarded by the famous apple case, the subject of a judgment by the european union's directorate-general for competition, which requires that multinational to pay back the colossal sum of 13 billion euros to the irish state for tax benefits wrongly received between 1991 and 2014. at a time when the majority of europeans are increasingly distrustful of the european institutions, this initiative by the swedish commissioner responsible for competition policy is seen as a show of service, seeking to create another facade of social concern. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling was based on the same principles as the contested tax ruling. of course, the situation is outrageous. however, it is worth asking what the authorities have been doing since 1991. and another relevant aspect is worth mentioning. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not contain any reference to the tax rulings of the united kingdom and ireland. we have already asked the european commission for the pcp's opinion on this, asking what this amount was per country and what is being done to compensate these countries, many of which have been punished, like us, by austerity policies.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate commissioner avramopoulos on his initiative and thank mrs ska keller for the quality of the proposals she has put forward which improve the original text. as ska keller has pointed out, relocation is one thing, resettlement is another. we need both instruments to deal with the problem. but we have two big problems: one is a problem of scale, the scale is clearly insufficient, and the second is a problem of slowness. the image that we're giving ourselves and the image that we're giving the world is that we're not solving either of these problems, nor are we solving the fundamental reforms that we need to better equip ourselves to accommodate this influx of people, nor are we responding effectively to the humanitarian emergency. i said once in this house that we fail! we have been slow and insufficient in the aid we have given, we have allowed national selfishness to override a duty which is not only moral but which is also dictated to us by international law, the geneva convention, which gives us the duty to take in people who are fleeing from war, hunger, death. and so i was very pleased to hear commissioner avramopoulos stress the need for solidarity and that is the crux of this debate, more pressure on member states to do what they have to do. that's what we're all gonna do right now.
mr president, commissioner, welcome back to this house for this working session. one of the common mistakes in the construction of policies on a given subject is the tendency to isolate that subject. in the specific case of employment, we have further reasons to deal with the issue in a global way, as it is closely linked to economic development, people's skills, the potential of firms and market needs, among others. for the european guidelines for the employment policies of the member states to be effective, they must be adapted to the realities and common objectives of the union, but also to the specificities of each member state. that is why i believe that they should be linked in a balanced way with the country-specific recommendations arising from the european semester process. i would like to draw attention to the fact that in this year's report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester, for which i was rapporteur, we have introduced a major innovation by increasing its social dimension. we included three employment indicators in the macroeconomic imbalance procedure, namely the activity rate, youth employment and long-term unemployment, and called for in-depth analyses to be carried out on the basis of these indicators, taking into account the proposal and implementation of further reforms in the economic, social and labour market fields. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. if we do not make this link, employment policies are hollow, because they are out of touch with reality.
madam president, we do not deny the need to improve access to finance for smes. we also think that this is a key issue for our economic growth. however, we cannot approach this question without a proper diagnosis. the attempt to solve the lack of sme financing through the capital markets union or the banking union shows that we have learned nothing from the past. all the rhetoric about market fragmentation is only meant to further increase capital mobility and the integration of financial markets, and to further strengthen the institutions that are said to be 'too big to fail'. those who know the reality of smes know that their financing is dependent on a banking sector with a strong national presence and clearly targeted at local and regional investment, and only public control of the financial system can guarantee banking for development.
we do not deny the importance of greater transparency in the securities markets and greater consumer protection. we must not be under the illusion that this document will solve the serious problems of the financial system, in particular its opacity and complexity, and we must not believe that this is the fundamental step towards a capital markets union, which will only strengthen the large financial groups which continue to speculate, always relying on public aid when necessary. to expect that these kits can solve information asymmetry seems to us, to say the least, overly optimistic, when we know that every day new financial products are born with increasing complexity. therefore, aware that the genesis of all these problems stems from the private nature of the financial sector and the principles of maximising shareholder profits that underlie it, we continue to advocate public control of the financial system, thus aligning the priorities of its institutions with the needs of the economies of each country.
mr president, the concept of a minimum income, in the context of a profound economic and social crisis, requires a deeper reflection on its objectives and its implementation, which takes account of the reality of each country. only in this way will it be possible to define a value which will in fact guarantee a minimum of dignity to those who are victims of poverty and long-term unemployment. today it is questionable whether the 60% of median income, thanks to the crushing of workers' wages, fulfills that goal. this concept will not in itself provide an answer to very serious social problems, which cannot be solved by palliatives but by reversing the economic and social policies of the european union and which will be aggravated if its objective is perverted, serving rather to accentuate exploitation by means of the assignment of work conditional on the provision of work, an explicit way of creating cheap labour. the fight against inequalities and poverty will only be possible through economic and social development policies that value wages, work with rights and a balanced distribution of wealth.
mr president, the question of the minimum income cannot be treated lightly. we are debating people's lives, their dignity, and we can do it in a small way or with ambition. to solve the problems of poverty, i advocate for much more than a minimum income. in my country, portugal, we have a social income of insertion, but do not be fooled by the altruism of the expression, because in portugal we have only made a change in the definition, because we have simply allocated a subsidy to people. i am in favour of a much more than an income, i am in favour of a social inclusion programme which, in addition to a minimum income, guarantees the poorest that they can have social aspirations. children from poor families can also be doctors, teachers and lawyers, whatever they want. genuine social mobility requires the articulation of an income with parental support, lifelong learning and child education programmes. we need a mechanism of independence and social accountability.
mr president, commissioner, in july and august the islamist fundamentalist group al-shabab was responsible for several deadly attacks in somalia. one of the most deplorable attacks was directed against an african union base, resulting in the deaths of thirteen people, including, incidentally, un officials. as we know, the fight against al-shabab and other armed groups depends to a large extent on the african union peacekeeping mission. that is why it is vital to support this mission and all initiatives for stabilization and national reconciliation. the european union is the main funder of the african union mission, with an allocation of eur 286 million until 2020. this support must be ensured and possibly even strengthened, but greater transparency is also needed. the european union cannot tolerate that peacekeepers it supports and funds are frequently accused of human rights abuses, including indiscriminate killings of civilians and sexual violence. the european union must firmly demand that these crimes be investigated and that those responsible for them not go unpunished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the new commissioner nominated by the united kingdom, as i consider that he has the necessary conditions to successfully carry out his duties in this difficult post-brexit period for all.
‒ following the resignation of jonathan hill following the outcome of the uk's brexit referendum, the british prime minister has proposed the name of julian king to replace him for the remainder of his term. after the hearing of the commissioner-designate in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on 12 september last, which resulted in a positive assessment of his performance by the members present, we voted today by secret ballot on his appointment, which i voted in favour of - although i regret the fact that this replacement has taken place.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a holistic approach, parliament has advocated that all the factors of the so-called refugee crisis be viewed in a comprehensive way. the commission has therefore put forward a number of legislative initiatives, including this european travel document, which are essentially aimed at making return operations for irregular migrants less bureaucratic. it is not a structural measure, but it deals with an important problem: just as we need to take in more and better refugees, we also need to ensure that those who have no right to enter or reside in our territory are returned to their country of origin. only then will we be fair, while at the same time ensuring that we allocate the resources at our disposal in the most efficient way. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ the creation of a standardised european travel document is essential for the management of migration flows, thus aiming to increase the recognition of the document by third countries, to ensure greater acceptance of returnees by these countries and to reduce red tape and waiting periods in member states. increasing the rate of return of irregular migrants is vital for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. a long-term solution is needed to stabilise the current migrant crisis, relieve pressure on member states and eu agencies and strengthen the capacity and resources available in the eu.
‒ the objective of this proposal is to establish a specific european travel document for the return of third-country nationals who are the subject of a return decision, providing for a standard form and enhanced technical and security features that ensure wider acceptance by third countries and increased use of this document for readmission purposes. their use should be promoted in bilateral and eu readmission agreements or other agreements. this proposal follows the announcement of the eu action plan on return to explore ways to improve the recognition of eu free-transit passports by third countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the return of migrants who are not eligible for international protection in the eu is one of the eu's major challenges. increasing the rate of return of irregular migrants is key to ensuring the integrity of the eu asylum system, to cooperation between eu member states and third countries and to maintaining the trust of eu citizens. i agree with the rapporteur that the format and application of the existing standardised travel document in the eu should be reformed in order to increase its recognition by third countries and to make it effective. i also agree that the exchange of information between member states on the issuing of travel documents and on the list of illegally staying third-country nationals who do not have valid travel documents should be ensured in order to increase mutual recognition of asylum decisions in the eu and to avoid secondary movements of those applicants whose right to asylum has been denied.
‒ as one of the central actors in the current migration crisis, the european union cannot be satisfied with the current rate of return of illegally staying third-country nationals to their respective states in cases of unsuccessful asylum applications. in order to ensure the integrity of the new union asylum system, as well as cooperation between member states, it is essential to address the difficulties faced by irregular migrants at an early stage. one of these difficulties is that some third countries do not accept return documents issued by member states. this report proposes to harmonize the format and technical specifications of this document - that is, it proposes a european document tout court - always on the assumption of guaranteeing the highest safety standards and safeguarding the risk of counterfeiting and falsification. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will be able to reduce the bureaucracy, variation, costs and waiting times associated with the return of irregular migrants to their own countries, as well as the recognition of this travel document by third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as i consider this proposal to be fundamental to keeping alive the sense of solidarity between peoples and respect for the rights of the human person. it is essential to show solidarity towards those in an irregular situation and a long-term solution to the current migrant crisis must be found in a spirit of cooperation between member states and eu agencies, not only on the issuing of travel documents but also on the issuing of travel documents to individuals on the list of illegally staying third-country nationals who do not have valid travel documents to increase mutual recognition of asylum decisions in the eu and to avoid secondary movements of those applicants whose right to asylum has been denied. due to the high number of unsuccessful asylum applications, a document is needed that harmonises the travel process, reduces red tape, costs, waiting time and increases recognition by third countries.
‒ while this regulation establishes a common format and technical and security specifications for the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, it must be understood that the return process is only one part of a european agenda on migration, and that this must be accompanied by the assurance that this process is conducted in strict respect for human rights.
‒ following the unprecedented wave of migration that has hit the eu in recent years and which is now one of the main priorities on the european agenda, many migrants are not covered by the eu's international protection regime and need to leave the european area. this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of third-country nationals who are in the eu illegally. the aim is not only to try to stabilise the current migration crisis, but also to relieve the pressure on member states and european agencies, whose capacity and resources are, as we know, limited. it is not a question of trying to respond to a merely temporary situation, since this is a drama that affects the very structure of european migration policy; the aim is rather to promote a harmonisation and substantial reformulation of the format and application of this european travel document, enhancing its recognition by third countries. this regulation will enable the eu to ensure a higher degree of security and reliability of technical standards, in particular in relation to counterfeiting and falsification of these documents. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestions in general and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ the creation of a standardised european travel document to facilitate the repatriation of irregular migrants is part of the measures presented by the commission to manage migration flows and represents another face of this shameful process that characterises the european response to the migration crisis. a crisis generated by european and american imperialism, which should have prompted a broad eu mobilization. on the contrary, this crisis has revealed the inhumanity of this eu which declares itself to be in solidarity, but only with the big multinational companies and the military industrial complex, which continues to generate billions in profits. what a shame.
‒ the prospectus should contain the information necessary to enable investors to make an informed investment decision. the commission has proposed a revision of the prospectus directive to make it easier and less costly for companies, in particular smes, to raise capital and to provide clear information to potential investors, including small investors. i agree that facilitating access to finance for smes is beneficial and that consumers would also benefit from an increase in investment options.
in writing. ‒ this regulation constitutes an essential step towards the realisation of the capital markets union as set out in the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'an action plan towards a capital markets union' of 30 september 2015. the purpose of the capital markets union is to help companies to tap into sources of capital from anywhere in the european union (hereinafter referred to as 'the union'), to make markets work more effectively and to provide investors and savers with additional opportunities to put their money to work in order to boost growth and create jobs. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, as this regulation is an essential step towards the realisation of the capital markets union, as envisaged in the european commission's work plan for this mandate. the capital markets union aims to help companies tap into sources of capital from anywhere in the european union, make markets work more efficiently and provide investors and savers with additional opportunities to put their money to work in order to boost growth and create jobs. the objective of this regulation is to ensure investor protection and market efficiency while strengthening the single market for capital. the provision of information which, according to the nature of the issuer and the securities, is necessary for investors to make an informed investment decision, ensures, together with the conduct of business rules, the protection of investors. in addition, such information is an effective means of enhancing confidence in securities, thus contributing to the proper functioning and development of securities markets.
‒ the report in question concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. the proposal for a regulation comes within the framework of the capital markets union, in which the commission has proposed to revise the prospectus directive, with the aim of administrative simplification and, very specifically, to make life easier for companies by freeing them from unnecessary burdens when they wish to raise capital or provide clear and accurate information to potential investors. i support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, as they bring greater transparency and better access for smes to the capital markets, as well as greater transparency and security for investors and consumers, meeting their legitimate expectations in terms of investment options. in view of the above, i voted in favour of adopting this report, which expresses the position of the european parliament at first reading.
in writing. ‒ we agree that it is of the utmost importance for investors to have reliable and accurate information and a high degree of transparency. we do not want the notion of transparency to be used to distort the very nature of the crisis. transparency helps and is welcome. but it's not believed that lack of transparency caused the financial crisis. the crisis was caused by the greed of the big institutional investors who had all the information possible, but who still didn't want to give up their profits. the problem was the speculative spiral that got the banks and the other financial institutions involved who knew they could take risks because they knew and they know today that they can always rely on governments and central banks to solve this problem. no matter how many regulations they invent, nothing can erase the need for public control of the financial system today.
in writing. - i have said it many times: we have been slow and uncooperative in the way we have handled the so-called refugee crisis. this proposal also makes this clear. the mechanisms for relocation and resettlement have so far worked very poorly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, to reduce the number of refugees. if, of the 160 000 initially proposed, 54 000 will be used in the resettlement programme with turkey and thus make the mechanism more effective, then this is a good proposal. however, what should really worry us is the lack of solidarity with italy and greece and that the - unfortunate - agreement with turkey is being fulfilled only by the turks and that the union continues to evade its commitments. in short, we need to be more effective in using the instruments available, as this proposal aims to do, and on the other hand we need more european solidarity. today we take a step towards greater efficiency.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken a number of measures to help the people of the region, including the establishment of a special police force to deal with the situation in the region.
‒ in the framework of the common asylum policy, article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for a specific legal basis for dealing with emergency situations. this amendment is to assess the efforts already made by member states in terms of the admission of syrians in turkey through resettlement, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission in relation to the number of applicants for international protection to be relocated to their territory under council decision 2015/1601. as regards the 54 000 applicants referred to in article 4 (1) (c) of council decision 2015/1601, this amendment allows member states to subtract from the number of relocated applicants allocated to them the number of syrians present in turkey admitted to their territory through resettlement, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission under national or multilateral schemes other than the resettlement scheme established under the conclusions of the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting within the council of 20 july 2015. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ article 78 (3) tfeu provides that, on a proposal from the european commission, the council, after consulting the ep, is to adopt provisional measures in favour of the member state (s) faced with an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of third-country nationals to one or more member states. given that the situation remains dramatic, i advocate new operational initiatives in eu-turkey cooperation on migration, with the necessary steps being taken to transfer some of the commitments made under the current relocation decisions, namely all or part of the 54 000 places currently unaffected, to the so-called one-for-one scheme. resettlement or other legal pathways for the admission of persons in clear need of international protection can be considered equivalent to resettlement, as they are all concrete expressions of solidarity with other member states or third countries facing massive inflows of migrants.
‒ the recent migration crisis has prompted the european union to take measures of international cooperation, which are of considerable relevance in the current global geopolitical context. the eu-turkey agreement has been proving to be a relevant the possible tool in managing the migration crisis. this report approves the relocation of 54 000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other member states, within the quotas set out in the agreement. my vote is therefore in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the need for a fairer redistribution of migrants among eu members. a large-scale resettlement of humanitarian and other legal admission from turkey under national and multilateral regimes should be undertaken to alleviate the migratory pressure on member states by providing safe and legal pathways to the union and by making irregular entries unnecessary. it is essential, together with the european border and coast guard agency, to monitor continuously the situation regarding the massive inflow of third-country nationals into the member states.
in writing. ‒ once and for all, member states need to fully implement their obligations with regard to the resettlement of a total of 120 000 refugees under decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 in order to relieve the pressure on greece and italy. the implementation of humanitarian decisions deserves the same respect and rigor as the implementation of economic and financial decisions.
in the first place, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's asylum policy is not disrupted by the current situation in the country. these are temporary measures of an exceptional nature intended to respond to a serious situation relating to the sudden and sudden influx of third-country nationals into the european area. as the situation remains urgent, serious and calls for immediate and effective action, this report focuses on the need to amend the commission proposal as regards the admission of third country nationals, their resettlement, humanitarian admission and other legal forms. since i am in agreement with the amendments that have been tabled, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ the situation remains critical. according to data provided by frontex, during the first months of 2016, on average, between 2000 and 3000 people entered greece irregularly from turkey every day. the restrictions imposed on the border between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have increased the pressure on greece and increased the risk of new migratory routes developing through other eu member states as the weather conditions improve. these new migratory routes are likely to affect frontline member states. it should be remembered that this crisis was generated by european and north american imperialism, which should have prompted a broad eu mobilisation. on the contrary, this crisis has revealed the inhumanity of this eu which declares itself to be in solidarity, but only with the big multinational companies and the military industrial complex, which continues to generate billions in profits. what a shame.
in writing. ‒ member states, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, should effectively and rapidly tackle the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, address the issue of accessibility for groups at risk, reduce the obstacles preventing companies from hiring people at different skill levels and sectors of the labour market, including by reducing red tape while respecting labour and social standards, promote young entrepreneurship and, in particular, foster the creation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to increase the employment rate of men and women. i therefore support the amendments proposed on this subject.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission should enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the eu needs holistic policies and public investment that tackle unemployment and poverty. in this context, the evolution to date of the employment and social indicators of the europe 2020 strategy is of great concern, given that the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased by 5 million instead of decreasing, the employment rate in some countries has not yet reached the pre-crisis levels and in some member states the proportion of young people not in employment, education or training (neets) is above 20% and the early school leaving rate is as high as 23%. the european employment strategy has a key role to play in delivering the objectives of the new strategy on employment, social inclusion and the labour market. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the problem of unemployment is, of course, one of the european union's main priorities. this report presents a set of guidelines in this area, which aim to highlight the importance of filling gaps which are acknowledged to exist , to raise awareness of social factors related to unemployment, and to promote a fairer labour market. the rapporteur stresses the importance of facilitating and investing in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, promoting young entrepreneurship and pursuing and promoting policies that guarantee fair wages for all workers. i voted in favour because i believe that by boosting labour demand, increasing the skills of workers, improving the functioning of the labour market and promoting equal opportunities, we will be on the right track towards a europe in which the social market economy contributes to the dignification of the labour market and the eradication of unemployment.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider it essential that the member states and the union should work towards developing a coordinated strategy on employment and, in particular, to promote a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that respond quickly to economic change. member states, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, should effectively and rapidly address the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, address the issue of accessibility for groups at risk, reduce the obstacles to companies hiring people at different skill levels and sectors of the labour market, including by reducing red tape while respecting labour and social standards, promote young entrepreneurship and, in particular, foster the creation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to increase the employment rate of men and women. member states should actively promote, inter alia, jobs in the green, white and blue sectors as well as the social economy and foster social innovation.
‒ this report aims to confirm for 2016 the validity of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which were launched in october 2015. unfortunately, many of the concepts used such as 'adaptability' and 'flexibility' involve changes in working relationships and conditions, leading to deterioration of workers' rights. on the other hand, the main solution advocated, entrepreneurship, is encouraged in multiple ways, including as a curricular component in the public education system. there is also the reference to "necessary flexibility in education systems and a practical orientation", revealing an essentially vocational education paradigm and the concept of subordinating educational policies to the needs of enterprises. this report was also based on the logic of the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester and other policies based on supranational interference and the imposition of austerity. our vote was against. the motion for a resolution now before us contains positive considerations as regards the defence of the rights of workers, regardless of their gender or sexual orientation, the strengthening of collective bargaining and the fight against poverty. however, it does not depart from what we voted against in the original document.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agea report, as i believe that parliament should state its guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. i believe that the eu, in implementing its employment policies, must ensure the creation of an integrated and inclusive labour market that is able to combat the impact of unemployment, to ensure a high level of employment, to ensure decent working conditions throughout the union, including adequate remuneration and adequate levels of social protection, and to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. in addition, the eu needs holistic policies and public investments that tackle unemployment and poverty. in this context, the evolution to date of the employment and social indicators of the europe 2020 strategy is of great concern, given that the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased by 5 million instead of decreasing and the employment rate in some countries has not yet reached the levels recorded before the crisis.
in writing. ‒ cites, with 181 parties, including the eu and its 28 member states, is the largest existing wildlife conservation agreement in the world and according to the red list of threatened species drawn up by the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources (iucn), more than 23 000 species, representing about 30% of the 79 837 species assessed by the iucn, are at risk of extinction. eu member states declared the import of almost 117 000 specimens of wild species as hunting trophies, these being species listed in the cites annexes for a period of ten years. i support the eu's accession to cites because it is a key step in ensuring that the eu can achieve the wider objectives of its environmental policies as well as the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna.
‒ cites, with 181 parties, including the eu and its 28 member states, is the largest existing global agreement on wildlife conservation. cites aims to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of these species in the wild. the eu's accession to cites is a key step towards ensuring that the eu can achieve the broader objectives of its environmental policies, as well as the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna, and promote the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the imperative to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of these species in the wild. wildlife trafficking is now a transnational organised crime that has major negative impacts on biodiversity and on the livelihoods of local populations, as it denies a legal income, creating insecurity and instability. increasingly, illegally traded exotic species are being treated as pets in europe and the rest of the world, and the escape of these animals could lead to uncontrolled spread with consequences for the environment and for public health and safety.
‒ the european union's (eu) accession to cites was a key step in ensuring that the eu and its member states achieve the broader objectives of their environmental policies, improving the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna and promoting the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda. this is the first time that the eu has become a party to the convention, making relevant proposals, in particular on the fight against corruption and the regulation of the hunting trophy regime. i would point out the recent adoption of the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, which aims to combat organised wildlife crime more effectively, and which should also be implemented by the member states, as a way of demonstrating the importance of fighting this type of crime. finally, i would also like to mention the importance of encouraging the eu and the member states to promote initiatives that increase protection against the impact of international trade in species for which the eu is an important transit or destination market, by creating legislation to that end aimed at reducing their illegal trade.
‒ this report points to ways of significantly improving cites. among many, i would highlight the proposal to strengthen controls on certificates of origin for ivory, to strengthen sanctions for trafficking in protected species (including elephants, rhinos, tigers, primates and tropical timber varieties) and the challenge to develop new guidelines and support the development of additional techniques and methodologies to distinguish species from captive production facilities from wild species. i hope that all these suggestions will be taken into account at cites cop 17 and that this will help to fight corruption and protect biodiversity. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in view of the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties (cop17) to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016, and given that the eu is participating for the first time as a party to cites, the envi coordinators decided to submit an oral question to the council and the commission, together with a proposal for a resolution. the resolution addresses the main topics of the next cop17 and makes several recommendations, including on transparency in decision-making and reporting, wildlife trafficking and corruption, enforcement and financing. the text supports the proposals put forward by the eu and its member states, in particular the proposed resolutions on corruption and hunting trophies, the extension of cites to protect a number of species that are imported into the eu, such as pets, and proposals for changes in the control of trade in personal and household goods.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution setting out the main objectives of the 17th session of the conference of the parties to the cites convention, as i agree with the european parliament's position on this, the largest existing agreement on wildlife conservation in the world. unfortunately, the union is now an important destination and transit market for illegal trade in wildlife, in particular birds, turtles, reptiles and flora. in this context, i particularly welcome the eu's accession to cites, especially as the eu is participating for the first time as a party, making the eu's legal status in cites more transparent and confirming the eu's role in multilateralism. this accession will allow the eu to express a coherent position on cites matters and to participate substantially in the negotiations of the conferences of the parties.
‒ since the liberalisation of postal services in 2008, there has been a paradigm shift in the sector, with the reduction of paper-based communications, the application of new technologies and an exponential increase in packaging and orders thanks to online shopping. i support the ferber report, which responds to these new challenges by setting out a set of observations for the national regulatory authorities, whose main task is to give practical application to the provisions of the postal services directive. i agree with the need to strengthen cooperation and coordination between regulatory authorities with a view to increasing the efficiency and interoperability of the cross-border delivery service, as well as improving geographical coverage and accessibility to universal services for parcel delivery to citizens with disabilities or reduced mobility or living in remote areas. i believe that it must be ensured that market liberalisation benefits all users, in particular consumers and smes, while promoting the strategy on e-commerce and crossborder parcel delivery. these rights should be accompanied by a simple and effective cross-border complaint and dispute resolution system.
‒ in 2009, at european level, postal services accounted for an annual turnover of eur 72 billion, corresponding to 0.62% of gdp in the eu. as regards universal services, more than 85 billion postal items and almost 2 billion parcels were dispatched by universal service providers in the eu in 2013. the european postal sector accounted for an annual turnover of eur 91 billion in 2011, equivalent to 0,72% of eu gdp. however, parcel delivery is a competitive, innovative and fast-growing sector. some 1.2 million people work for universal postal service providers, together with people working for other letter and parcel delivery operators. i agree with the need to promote and safeguard effective competition in the postal services sector.
‒ the postal market is still an area of the economy with strong growth prospects and increased competition, although between 2012 and 2013 the general mail service decreased on average by 4.85% in the eu, according to the european commission's database on postal statistics, which is consistent with the decrease in the volume of mail over the last ten years, largely due to the process of substitution by electronic means. the postal services directive provides member states with the flexibility to address local specificities and ensure the long-term sustainability of the provision of universal services, while responding to user needs and adapting to changes in the technical, economic and social context. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the adoption of directive 2008/6/ec was crucial to achieving the fundamental objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. indeed, postal services comprise a wide variety of services, from the delivery of letters and parcels to homes and offices to the promotion of value-added services (e-commerce, insurance, banking, advertising). the sector is an important part of communication in the internal market of the european union, playing a key role in european social, territorial and economic cohesion. however, postal services have now changed the way in which their services are sought, with many of these services now being provided by digital means, which is already being accentuated by the increase in online purchases and parcel deliveries. this report concludes that promoting competition in this sector is important to achieve the objectives set out in strategy 2020. therefore, by identifying the european postal services sector as a vital part of communication in the internal market and by sharing the view that strategy 2020 is fundamental in this area, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the 2008 review of postal services has achieved key objectives in terms of its liberalisation. however, they have undergone enormous changes since the market was fully opened. paper communications have seen a sharp decline and the number of letters has decreased across the eu. on the other hand, new technologies make online shopping more convenient and therefore increase the number of packages and orders processed by postal operators. over the past five years, the business-to-consumer segment has grown rapidly in the parcel and packaging markets. good postal services are an essential part of communication in the eu's internal market. however, the main trend is in parcel delivery services, due to the development of e-commerce. however, parcel delivery is a competitive, innovative and fast-growing sector. the european express delivery services sector employed an estimated 272 000 workers in 2010 and this number is expected to increase to 300 000 by 2020. finally, one of the commission's main tasks is to promote and safeguard effective competition in the postal services sector. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of this directive.
‒ this own-initiative report deals with the implementation of the 2008 postal services directive and analyses in a very detailed and exhaustive way the significant changes that postal services have undergone over the last few years, proposing some measures to improve them. i agree with the overall characterisation, and i am sure that postal services must adapt to the current reality by promoting greater competition in this sector, taking into account the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy with regard to more sustainable growth and a more competitive and resource-efficient economy. as regards the proposals in the report, i would stress two: the need to strengthen the independence of the national regulatory authorities and to ensure fair competition. a final word on the importance of member states' administrations also adapting to this new reality - more technological in nature - in order to promote more actively the economic, social and territorial cohesion of their territories, and the need to ensure that all users of this market, with particular emphasis on end consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises, benefit equally from the liberalisation of this market.
‒ the implementation of the postal services directive, especially since its revision in 2008, has achieved its fundamental objectives of liberalising european postal services. this liberalization has resulted in a reduction in geographical coverage and distribution frequency; in higher prices and the shutdown of unprofitable services; in social and labour dumping, through the replacement of permanent jobs by temporary, precarious workers, with wages often below the national minimum wage. the report, in a context markedly more diverse in terms of communications (in view of the increasing digitalisation), which has taken away the scope of the objectives of liberalisation (maximising profits for financial capital), calls for more competition, more value-added services and a reduction (or no obligation to provide) in the provision of mandatory universal services. this whole process deserves our complete disapproval. the evolution of this sector has been a regression for the populations and the users.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are a key pillar of the european union's economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the community's economy. i believe that the eu should seek to overcome the difficulties of the heterogeneity of types of smes and of the different national circumstances of economic environment or legal framework. in this context, considering that bank credit is the main source of financing for smes and that its decline, driven by the crisis, has had a significant impact on the european business fabric, i argue that the capital markets union in prospect should take smes as a priority vector of its affirmation. i share the concern about the balance between the stability of the banking sector and support for smes, and i therefore believe that the new rules for the banking sector should take account of the financing needs of smes. i also share the view that financial literacy for entrepreneurs and investors must be promoted: in the case of the former, to raise awareness of non-bank forms of financing on the capital markets; in the case of the latter, to increase confidence in investment. i therefore support the report.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcaps represent a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes is therefore a longstanding issue on the political agenda. the variety of smes in the eu is considerable. different member states have different types of smes, depending on their business model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form. it is important to support smes' access to finance throughout their life cycle and to increase smes' awareness of complementary market-based sources of finance.
‒ micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as midcaps, play an important role in terms of employment and growth for the european economy, with smes contributing in 2014 to 67% of total employment, 71.4% of employment growth and 58% of value added in the non-financial business sector in the eu. the creation of incentives to improve access to finance and the diversification of sources of finance for smes is therefore necessary. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (msmes) and midcaps play an important role in the european economy in terms of employment and growth, with smes contributing in 2014 to 67% of total employment, 71.4% of employment growth and 58% of value added in the non-financial business sector in the eu. i am voting in favour of this report which encourages institutions to create new ways of financing smes, different from those which have traditionally been available. i therefore believe that the capital markets union should actively contribute to the existence of other ways of providing financial support for companies, as can and should happen with venture capital.
‒ it is now clear that access to bank financing for smes has been severely restricted in recent years, mainly as a result of the financial crisis in the european economic area. this is all the more serious when it is a well-known fact that bank loans are the main source of finance for european smes. despite this heterogeneity in the genesis of these smes and their financing methods, this report identifies the importance of support for the transfer of enterprises, the encouragement of financial literacy, the creation of complementary non-bank sources and the simplification and harmonization of the tax systems of the member states. i am voting in favour of this report because smes are a substantial part of the european business fabric, with a tremendous socioeconomic impact, and it is imperative to ensure that these companies can obtain the appropriate support and financing, especially in times of increased instability in the european and global economic and financial systems.
‒ i voted in favour of the fact that i believe it is important to support smes financially, understanding that there are different types of smes depending on their business model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form. country-specific factors such as the economic environment, structural factors such as the legal framework and cultural issues have a strong influence on financing needs and the availability of financing options. all these sme and country specific factors have an impact on the productivity, profitability and risk profile of smes. given the multiplicity of factors, it is difficult to assess the influence of each. this has to be taken into account when designing appropriate policy measures with a view to diversifying cost-effective financing options for smes. the public availability of financial information on smes is essential for their successful access to the capital market. investors, whether banks, institutional investors or small investors, should be able to assess the profitability and the degree of risk of their investment.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) represent a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes is essential. during the crisis, smes had more limited access to finance than larger companies. the high dependence of smes on bank credit and the 'disadvantage' of banks triggered by the crisis have contributed to this situation. an initiative to diversify funding options for smes as one of its priorities, with special attention to those run by women and minorities, is therefore urgently needed.
‒ a very significant part of the european economy is made up of smes and midcaps, with a geometry that varies in different member states according to business model, size, legal form and financial structure, plus country-specific structural factors. this heterogeneity has repercussions on productivity, profitability, job creation and the complexity of sme financing itself. therefore, each of these specific factors should be taken into account when designing policy measures to diversify investment throughout the business life cycle. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals to support access to finance for smes, whether through tax incentives, bank loans, improving the level of support through existing or newly created credit channels, and through complementary non-bank sources of finance such as those listed in the capital markets union action plan. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
‒ the diversification of sources of finance for smes in the capital markets union is a bright spot. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the report masks the real objectives of this initiative and does not condemn the negative impact that austerity and neoliberal policies have had on smes. instead of making the case for the banking union and the capital markets union, it would be preferable to read the real causes of the crisis which, at the very least, should make us aware of the need for effective public control over the financial system.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures from the production of certain products is appropriate. i note that on the one hand, european smes are very heterogeneous and include a large number of microenterprises, 'start-ups' and fast-growing innovative companies, which, because of their different business models, face different problems with different financing needs. i therefore stress the need for smes to have improved and more diversified public and private financing options, not just for the start-up phase but for the whole life cycle of the sme. to this end, the commission and the member states should support smes in this process, not only in terms of funding but also in terms of regulation and the initiatives to be supported. as there is no one-size-fits-all financing model, it is necessary for the commission to support the development of a wide range of tailor-made programmes, instruments and initiatives to support enterprises in their start-up and growth phases, taking into account their size, turnover and specific financing needs.
‒ unemployment and migration are the biggest challenges facing europe today and have multiple implications for the future. the number of unemployed in the eu remains at historically high levels and the recent arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants is another huge social challenge, with more and more jobs needed to integrate people settling in europe. the european economic structure is based on small and medium-sized enterprises as a source of new jobs and the engine of the eu economy. i agree with the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in relation to their competitive position compared to large companies. i support the need for a stable regulatory environment and better quality of regulation and enforcement as the right way to reduce burdens on smes, including wage costs. i would stress the need for specific measures for smes, with the aim of reducing market failures, enabling their internationalisation and boosting their job creation potential. i therefore support this report.
‒ the number of unemployed in the eu remains at historically high levels, reaching 23 million people in 2015, with 4.5 million young people under 25 years of age and both sexes outside the labour market and education system. in 2015, small enterprises contributed up to 71% of the growth in employment in the non-financial market economy. the report stresses that in order to achieve a sound environment for business development and boost its job-creation potential, national and european policies must, as a priority, address issues related to skills (shortages, gaps, 'brain drain'), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, smes contributed a large share to employment growth, with up to 71% in the non-financial market economy. job creation in smes is influenced by a number of internal and external factors, and among the latter, key assumptions are controllable competition (including from multinational companies and the shadow economy), controllable administrative burdens and overall production costs, and access to finance and skilled labour. we must create mechanisms to make the best use of the potential of smes in job creation and economic development. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ it is important to remember that almost 99% of european enterprises are smes, thus forming the backbone of the eu economy and are strategically important in terms of job creation. i am voting in favour of this report, on the understanding that smes must actively contribute to sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs. at the same time, new and updated teaching methods and the development of skills and competences must be promoted in order to meet the needs of smes, thus increasing the employability of thousands of european citizens.
‒ high unemployment rates and migration flows have been putting increasing pressure on the european labour market. while europe is not the continent with the highest birth rates, youth unemployment is certainly a further threat to demographic prospects and exposes the risks of social security systems and pension schemes. the recent arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants in the european area is now forcing a rethink of the union's social integration model, which is to be made more robust and, at the same time, needs employment solutions that alleviate potential social tensions in the host member states, as exemplified by the united kingdom. this report identifies the importance of smes in the current scenario, stressing the need to address issues such as regulatory uncertainty, undeclared work, multinational privileges and other issues of scale, such as the so-called 'brain drain'. for the above reasons, and because i consider it essential to create new and sustainable jobs in all the member states of the union, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ high levels of unemployment threaten demographic prospects, as many young people without work are delaying the start of a family. the recent arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants is another huge social challenge, with more and more jobs needed. in the face of these challenges, strengthening the conditions for job creation in all eu member states has become essential. smes must be a central point in the definition of enterprise policy and the necessary measures must be taken to enhance the job creation potential of this sector. the report stresses that issues related to skills (shortages, training gaps, 'brain drain'), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises, must be addressed. the importance of reducing the burden on smes, the further development of vocational training, the need to ensure a level playing field for smes and the 'paradox of the labour market' are highlighted, as many jobs cannot be filled easily due to the labour gap in europe. i voted in favour.
‒ the european economic structure is based mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises as a source of new jobs and the engine of europe's economy. over the last decade, smes have created 85% of european jobs. in 2015, small enterprises contributed up to 71% of the growth in employment in the non-financial market economy. smes must therefore be at the heart of the definition of enterprise policy in the european union and all necessary measures must be taken to enhance the job creation potential of this sector. national and european policies should, as a priority, address issues related to regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the privileged position of multinational enterprises. we must not forget the aspects of social protection, social enterprises and cooperatives, the creation of quality employment, the problem of precarious employment, unfair competition, gender inequalities in employment and income, the fight against tax evasion and the shadow economy, the impact of trade agreements on workers' rights, wages and jobs, and also the impact of the digital single market.
‒ unemployment and the proper management of migration flows are two of the biggest challenges facing europe today. this report focuses on the first of these challenges - the creation of measures to promote employment (particularly youth employment), especially by small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). indeed, the number of unemployed in the eu remains at historically high levels, especially youth unemployment - which has unfortunately been prevalent for some time. this situation poses a major political, economic and social challenge, with the urgent need to create more jobs for young people and to properly integrate people settling in europe. the european economic structure is based mainly on smes, which have been responsible for 85% of european job creation over the last decade. the report under consideration, which i voted in favour of, stresses that in order to achieve a sound environment for business development and boost its job creation potential, national and european policies must address, as a matter of priority, issues relating to skills (brain drain), regulatory uncertainty, administrative burdens, undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises.
‒ smes are the sector of the economy that leverages society, contributing to 71% of employment growth in the non-financial economy in 2015. this report recognises the importance of smes and their relationship to the development of societies and the quality of employment. it contains some points which are considered positive, such as the reduction of burdens, the fight against fake selfemployment, the consequences of the trade agreements ttip and ceta or the need for funding opportunities to boost organisations. however, it takes on assumptions which are completely contrary to the conditions necessary to guarantee the development of enterprises that promote employment with rights and the overall development of societies. these assumptions are based on the reduction of wages and labour deregulation to promote competitiveness; the promotion of dual education systems, 'less academic' and with entrepreneurship disciplines; the encouragement of teleworking and so-called 'smartworking' and deregulated forms of labour organisation, mainly through the defence of temporary work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the krasnodebski report because i agree with the proposals put forward by the european parliament on exploiting the job creation potential of smes, which account for 99% of european companies and are therefore the backbone of the eu economy. i would remind you that smes create more jobs than other private sector enterprises, accounting for around two thirds of all private sector employment in the eu, and that entrepreneurs and smes make an important contribution to the eu's socioeconomic growth and development. i would also remind you that support for smes helps to combat european unemployment rates and youth unemployment. i therefore stress the call on the member states and the commission to develop policies to respond to skills shortages and inadequacies, the phenomenon of 'brain drain', limited access to funding and public procurement, weak innovation capacity and reduced access to new technologies. in this context, it is also necessary to take into account the insufficient support given to smes in the framework of public investment policies, which contrasts with the privileged position of multinational enterprises.
‒ article 10 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu states that in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall aim to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. fifteen years after the adoption of the directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation, this is the guiding principle we must continue to follow in its application, and the values must be impervious to the current sentiment or political winds of the member states. i support the weber report, which is intended to strengthen the fight against discrimination, pointing out the still low level of awareness of the issue and the existence of real phenomena of discrimination in specific groups and the urgency of unblocking the horizontal anti-discrimination directive. i refer to the extensive case law of the european court of human rights on this matter and welcome the commission's initiative to reconcile privacy with privacy, which is inseparable from this directive.
‒ according to the fourth eurobarometer survey, compared with the previous survey, more europeans are tolerant of groups at risk of discrimination and europeans are also better informed about their rights in the event of discrimination. according to data from the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra), 40% of roma seeking employment are victims of discrimination, 75% of homosexual couples do not shake hands in public, 38% of jews surveyed admit they do not wear symbolic clothing in public, 37% of muslims surveyed said they have been victims of discrimination and 11% that they have been victims of hate crimes. overall, the situation has a negative impact on social cohesion as well as on respect for fundamental rights. efforts are needed to strengthen dialogue between governments, civil society and social partners in all areas and to raise awareness among the general public.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and must combat social exclusion and discrimination. it is necessary for all member states to remove the natural, social and economic obstacles which prevent the principle of equality from finding material expression and which limit the freedom of european citizens. only then will the proposed objectives be achieved. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the employment equality directive is based on one of the union's basic principles. article 10 tfeu provides that the union's policies and actions are to be based on non-discrimination on grounds of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, age or sexual orientation. however, according to the commission report, the existence of legislation is not sufficient to achieve full equality. therefore, awareness of existing protection, the use of eu funds and the strengthening of national equality bodies should be strengthened. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the transposition and application of directive 2000/78/ec, which establishes a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, by the 28 member states has, according to eurobarometer, allowed not only for greater tolerance towards groups at risk of discrimination, but also for european citizens to be better informed about their rights in the event of discrimination. however, challenges to the implementation of the employment equality directive remain. according to the teu, the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and must combat social exclusion and discrimination on grounds of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. in the same way, pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men must prevail in the member states. in view of the fact that the fight against discrimination in the context of employment and occupation will only be effective if this discrimination is tackled in a comprehensive manner, which is the objective pursued in the document under consideration, i support and vote in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour because i consider it essential that the eu should combat social exclusion and discrimination; the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. however, according to data from the european union agency for fundamental rights, 40% of the roma population seeking employment are victims of discrimination, 75% of homosexual couples do not shake hands in public, 38% of the jews surveyed admit that they do not wear symbolic robes in public, 37% of the muslims surveyed said that they have been victims of discrimination and 11% that they have been victims of hate crimes. overall, the situation has a negative impact on social cohesion as well as on respect for fundamental rights and the reported cases should be addressed seriously. the data available on equality are still very scarce, in particular because the employment equality directive does not require member states to collect them.
‒ according to the treaty, the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and must combat social exclusion and discrimination. fifteen years after the adoption of the employment equality directive, which ultimately aimed to create a level playing field in employment and occupational activity, challenges remain. europeans are now more tolerant of groups at risk of discrimination and are also better informed about their rights in the event of discrimination. however, efforts to strengthen the dialogue between governments, civil society and the social partners, and to raise awareness among the general public, remain necessary. the need for greater participation in the labour market in the future, as well as the guarantee of long-term incomes, make it essential to find more effective mechanisms for reconciling work and private life, and i therefore broadly agree with this report which focuses on the issues described above, and i voted in favour of it.
‒ the aim of the equal treatment in employment directive is to create a level playing field in relation to working relationships and organisation, in particular with regard to gender, racial and ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability or age. the report assesses the application of the directive and provides a number of recommendations for the future. as we know, the issue of negative multiple discrimination, both in the employment context and in society as a whole, is a very relevant factor of social exclusion, with implications and consequences that have an impact on cultural behaviour or social stratification, in the sense of perpetuating inequalities. it is understood that the report has a good framework and presents effective answers to a problem which has not been weakened and which we see tending to grow as a result of the policies of austerity and imperialist aggression.
‒ i voted in favour of the weber report because i share the recommendations made in the report on the implementation of the employment equality directive. i would point out that, despite overall positive implementation in many member states, only a few countries systematically ensure that all their legal texts comply with the principle of equal treatment, and even fewer apply them systematically. i would remind you that the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and must combat social exclusion and discrimination, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. since one of the major obstacles is the collection of data, i would stress the call for harmonising homogeneous statistics to fill the gaps in the collection of data on gender equality, in particular through eurostat, with the aim of integrating disaggregated data on all grounds of discrimination into the european social survey indicators, in order to combat in a concrete way all discrimination related to recruitment and the labour market.
‒ established by regulation no 1927/2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to support and express solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of large-scale redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, where such redundancies have a significant negative impact on the regional or local economy. since 2006, the egf has been subject to numerous reforms: the intervention criterion was reduced from 1000 to 500 redundant workers, making the egf more accessible to the regions and member states; the period of intervention was extended from 12 to 24 months, enabling many beneficiaries to have access to more advanced training or education programmes; self-employed workers can now access the egf, which allows them to have the same social protection and safety net as other workers. the reforms of the regulation have helped to improve its functioning and simplified the procedures for member states to access the egf. i therefore support mrs harkin's report.
in writing. ‒ since its inception, member states have had the possibility to use the egf in exceptional circumstances or in small labour markets, where the intervention criterion was not met, if the redundancies concerned had a considerable impact on employment and the local economy. the scope of the egf was extended between 2009 and 2001 and from 2013 to include workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in addition, as of 2013, self-employed persons were included in the scope, and the same was true in regions eligible under the youth employment initiative with a number of neets equal to the number of targeted beneficiaries. i agree with the conclusions of the report.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to support and express the eu's solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the objective of the egf is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing the unemployed for a new job and providing them with support in this context. we must continue to improve this important mechanism to reduce the adverse effects of unemployment. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the objective of this report is to analyse the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in the period 2007-2014, and to identify the importance and effectiveness of the reforms implemented in that period. the egf is an emergency instrument and is not covered by the multiannual financial framework. it was set up to provide solidarity for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of large-scale redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. between 2007 and 2014, the functioning of the egf underwent some changes, notably the reduction in the number of staff required to benefit from the fund (currently 500 staff) and the increase in the budget of this mechanism. the use of support from the egf requires the submission by the member states of a final report on the implementation of the egf, including statistics on the reintegration of assisted workers. i support this report because i value the increase in the capacity and the action of the egf, identifying this solidarity fund as an indispensable tool for the protection of european workers, in a social context where unemployment is one of the problems to which it is urgent to give a european response, for europeans.
in writing. - i voted in favour, because i consider the protection of workers which this fund is trying to guarantee to be fundamental. i believe it is imperative that we show solidarity with workers, and sometimes even families, who have lost their jobs in large-scale redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation or crises. the egf allows for personalised, individualized and intensive support for workers made redundant and in many cases gives positive results, including a positive psychological impact, increased adaptability and labour market flexibility. in addition, the data show that the egf contributed to social cohesion by helping large groups of people in urgent need of assistance. this action had a positive impact on the families of the beneficiaries and the community in general.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was initially set up to enable solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns, was subsequently extended to include workers made redundant as a result of the financial and global crisis, including self-employed workers. also in terms of eligible actions, funding and beneficiaries, the scope of application was broadened in the period 2007-2014 to include the most disadvantaged people, the elderly and unemployed young people, with a longer period of use of funding - 24 months - and consequently increasing the number of beneficiaries reintegrated into the labour market. as the report shows - and i voted in favour of it - i would also point out that the intervention criterion for recourse to the fund has been reduced from 1 000 to 500 redundant workers, which has made it easier for smaller regions and member states to apply, thus contributing to achieving greater economic, social and territorial cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a palliative measure, the aim of which is to compensate for the weakest link in neoliberal and austerity policies - workers - who are pushed into unemployment and precariousness. we believe that the egf cannot be used to replace the obligations of companies and member states towards their workers. it is noted, however, that the character of an emergency fund for support in this social case deserves our approval. similarly, all the transfers proposed to the european parliament under these funds have been approved with our support. the report takes a realistic view of this period and we therefore propose to vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the harkin report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) between 2007 and 2014, as i considered it imperative to support and express eu solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i believe that there should be more flexibility in the eligibility thresholds, especially for smes, as the egf has been concentrated on large companies, so its impact on smes has been very limited. i would remind you that the objective of the egf is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing the unemployed for a new job and providing them with support in this context.
madam president, relations between the european union and the acp countries must be based, from the outset, on the recognition of a historical debt to be repaid for hundreds of years of colonialism, plunder, oppression and exploitation; on the recognition and combating of the deeply asymmetrical nature of north-south interdependencies which have not been mitigated in recent years. the objective of the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy cannot ignore the fact that this integration must not be, but is, a subordinate, dependent and peripheral integration based on unfair relations between unequal parties. the liberalization and deregulation of trade, which the so-called economic partnership agreements are an instrument for, serves the interests of the northern powers and economic groups, but not the needs of sustainable development of the southern countries and communities, quite the contrary. the relationship with the acp countries must respect their sovereignty, their legitimate choices and aspirations, not a biome to impose on them models of political and economic organization or geostrategic alignment with the priorities and choices of the european union.
mr president, the persistence of hunger, the persistence of millions of cases of chronic malnutrition in the world, at a time when scientific and technological development is reaching levels which could easily allow this phenomenon to be eradicated, is one of the most vivid libels against the capitalist system which is largely dominant on a world scale. the reasons for the famine are political, first and foremost. it is no coincidence that we are seeing a resurgence of the phenomenon even in countries normally included in the group of countries called 'developed'. look, for example, at the devastating effects of the european union and imf programmes. free trade that ruins small-scale farming, family farming and the food sovereignty of entire nations, land grabbing, the monopoly of transnational agribusiness on seeds and other production factors, the dismantling of public infrastructure and services and the attack on the social functions of states are among the inevitable causes of hunger, and a genuine effort to combat hunger must necessarily take into account the need to combat its causes.
mr president, commissioner, in march 2015 i addressed the plenary on the illegal deforestation of tropical forests, the conflict with agriculture, the role of corruption and the loss of diversity. today i am focusing on the action plan drawn up by the european commission, because its implementation lacks clarity, objectives and priorities. it's hard to understand some of the options. for example, under this plan a voluntary partnership agreement was concluded with liberia, which included support worth eur 12 million, but this country exports only eur 5 million in timber to our territory. ivory coast, which exports 30 times the value to europe, was left out. if it had been included it would have ensured the environmental and social suitability of that wood. in addition to being a serious environmental problem, it is an unfair competition with our producing regions which are making an effort to certify, such as the azores, the portuguese islands of which i am a native and which are in the middle of the atlantic.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is much more than a simple market and since the protection of human rights is a fundamental value of the union, this value must be at the heart of european trade policy. that is why the new anti-torture rules agreed at the trilogue of the european institutions deserve the support of this house, precisely because they constitute a very important step towards a more responsible trade policy more in line with our values, and are even capable of setting an example in this field on a global scale. i therefore welcome the work of the commission and the delegation from the committee on international trade in the trilogue which succeeded in incorporating a large part of parliament's recommendations into the final text and i would like to highlight two fundamental points: the ban on advertising and promotion of goods intended for torture and also the urgency procedure which will allow a rapid response to the circulation of new products which may appear on the market and which are likely to be used in acts of torture. with these new rules, the union's trade policy is better, our fight for human rights is stronger and the european parliament will continue to fulfil its mission by monitoring the application of these rules so that the union's trade policy is actually, in practice, true to the values of the european union.
madam president, a few years ago, at the request of the ngo reprieve, i and other colleagues in the european parliament began to take action to achieve the result that we are finally voting on today. i congratulate the rapporteur, marietje schaake, who led the negotiations between the commission, the council and parliament in defence of parliament's positions to introduce crucial amendments to the 2005 regulation, correcting gaps and increasing scope and effectiveness. this is the case with clauses restricting and prohibiting advisory, transport, brokerage, marketing and other services ancillary to the sale of risky or prohibited products. companies established in the european union will no longer be able to promote prohibited equipment at arms fairs, exhibitions and online. we have prohibited the provision of technical assistance in the use of medicines or other products liable to be used for such purposes, for torture, for the use of the death penalty and we have introduced an emergency procedure to monitor new products presenting risks. it is not enough to be against the death penalty and torture universally. we need to ensure that the european union, in trade policy as in other areas, is consistent and that it is in no way an accomplice to the use of the death penalty and acts of torture, that our companies, european companies, do not profit from the sale of products that can be used by dictatorships or democracies to inflict torture and the death penalty on human beings. consistency in the defence of human dignity, based on the values enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights, is fundamental in trade policy as in other areas.
madam president, last sunday, the irreecha festival in ethiopia ended in a massacre. according to oromo sources, 678 people were killed by security forces shooting into the crowd in cold blood and causing a stampede. another 700 people have been murdered in ethiopia in the past 10 months, as marathon runner feyisa lilesa denounced at the rio olympics. the un high commissioner for human rights and the african commission on human and people’s rights have called for independent observers to enter the country and assess the situation and for an impartial investigation. the eu, which pays lots of taxpayers’ money to the country via oda, is silent. that silence is deafening. will you, mr president, speak up on our behalf in solidarity with the repressed people of ethiopia and call for an international independent investigation into the irreecha massacre and the ongoing repression in ethiopia? (applause)
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's climate action plan is implemented in a timely manner. the fact that the agreement, as well as the nationally determined contributions (ndcs), are assumed to be legally binding for the 187 parties is good news for the global fight against the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and for the achievement of climate neutrality by the end of the century. i support the ambitious long-term goal of limiting the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees celsius. to this end, i stress the importance of global five-yearly stocktaking from 2023 onwards of progress on emissions and the obligation for all parties to submit a biennial greenhouse gas inventory. these are important steps towards greater transparency and accountability of states. i also welcome the commitment to benchmarking good practice in scientific research and policy-making. i call for the speedy deposit of the instruments of ratification with the united nations, maintaining the eu's leadership in this area. i therefore support the recommendation.
‒ the paris agreement represents a milestone of enormous historical significance in the fight against climate change. it is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement. it is crucial for comprehensive and collective action at global level with the aim of transitioning to a climate resilient global economy. it shows solidarity with future generations. we must live well within the limits of our planet. this agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention, representing together at least about 55% of total greenhouse gas emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. so far, 62 countries responsible for 51.89% of global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification. the eu accounts for about 12% of global emissions. with eu ratification, the second criterion of 55% of emissions is met.
‒ despite the immense publicity, the paris agreement does not fully meet the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. no concrete limits have been agreed on ghg emissions and the package of measures already announced by the overwhelming majority of the 195 countries that have approved the text are insufficient to meet the proposed warming target. the agreement maintains and legitimises a market-based approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument. an approach based on the commodification and financialization of nature and its resources, which has created tradable pollution rights and fixed their price at ridiculous levels. an approach which has revealed to satiety all its inefficiency and perversity but which is insisted upon, even though alternatives exist. the agreement abandons the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialised countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that have contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries. finally, the agreement also includes a dimension of financing projects by large transnational groups in developing countries, thus strengthening the imperialist domination of the resources of these countries.
‒ the paris agreement is a milestone in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism, and is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the paris agreement, adopted in december 2015, is a global victory in the fight against climate change. climate change is ongoing, and human action has been the main cause of the global warming recorded since the mid-20th century. in this regard, the widespread and substantial impacts of climate change, already evident, on natural and human systems on all continents and oceans are of concern. the paris agreement on climate change was a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and the commitment to reduce global emissions to net zero emissions during the second half of the century is welcome. the eu must be diligent in putting pressure on those parties who are not yet in line with the paris agreement. i support the need for additional efforts to ensure that financial resources are mobilised to combat climate change in order to reach the target of usd 100 billion by 2020. i therefore support the recommendation.
‒ despite the immense publicity, the paris agreement does not fully meet the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. no concrete limits have been agreed on ghg emissions and the package of measures already announced by the overwhelming majority of the 195 countries that have approved the text are insufficient to meet the proposed warming target. the agreement maintains and legitimises a market-based approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument. an approach based on the commodification and financialization of nature and its resources, which has created tradable pollution rights and fixed their price at ridiculous levels. an approach which has revealed to satiety all its inefficiency and perversity but which is insisted upon, even though alternatives exist. the agreement abandons the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialised countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that have contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries. finally, the agreement also includes a dimension of financing projects by large transnational groups in developing countries, thus strengthening the imperialist domination of the resources of these countries.
‒ the conclusion of the paris agreement is one of the most ambitious demonstrations of cooperation, understanding and commitment on climate, having been adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change in december 2015. the paris agreement is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change and, in my view, it is ambitious, balanced and fair. among the features of the agreement, i would stress the encouragement of cooperation between its 187 parties, its binding nature, the express need for energy transition embodied in its rules, exemplified by the suggestion of phasing out fossil fuels. in my view, the implementation of the paris agreement, under the guise of international cooperation and the binding nature of its rules, will make a fundamental contribution to the fight against climate change. i am therefore pleased to see the agreement being concluded successfully, to hope that it will be respected by all parties and to be proud of the european union's leading role in environmental matters. that said, my vote is in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it establishes a dynamic evaluation mechanism that allows for more ambitious objectives to be set over time in matters relating to financing for climate change mitigation and adaptation and loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change. this recommendation thus creates a better framework for transparency and accountability, including biennial submission by all parties of greenhouse gas inventories and information needed to monitor progress, an assessment by technical experts, a multilateral and facilitative review of parties' progress, and a mechanism to facilitate and promote compliance. the paris agreement sets, for the first time, a global target to build capacity, increase climate resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change.
‒ given the european union's leadership in the fight against climate change, it would be inconceivable for the paris agreement to enter into force without the european union as a signatory. the ratification of the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership role of the eu and its member states and their continued efforts to combat climate change at international level. it will also make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change.
‒ the paris agreement represents a historic milestone in the fight against climate change, being ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding. it represents an irreversible turning point on the path towards a climate change resilient world economy through global action on the path to climate neutrality that is intended to be achieved in the second half of this century. the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, given its role in this endeavour since the kyoto protocol. the eu and its member states should therefore take the necessary steps to complete their national and european ratification processes by the end of 2016, in line with the ambitious target of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, and to meet the 2020-2030 emission reduction commitment. like the rapporteur, i agree that the decision to ratify this agreement will send a strong signal and highlight the eu and its member states' leading role in combating climate change at international level, and it is therefore important to complete the ratification process with the council and the respective member states as soon as possible.
‒ the paris agreement adopted under the united nations convention on climate change highlights the leading role of the european union and its 28 member states in combating climate change. this approach follows a good european tradition which was already highlighted in the kyoto protocol. by committing to reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by around 40% by 2030, the union is thus seeking to contribute to limiting the temperature increase to below 2 °c compared to the pre-industrial era. i voted in favour because of the importance of this subject.
‒ the paris agreement has been called a landmark. for the first time, all countries have committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preventing global temperature from rising by more than two degrees. the final text mentions the 1.5 degree ceiling, but this has a purely symbolic effect and was included to cater for small island countries threatened by submersion. the big problem is that cop-21 did not set targets or define the means to achieve the objectives presented. and he pushed the problem to 2030. and to give a social and solidarity touch, a fund has been created that is funded by rich countries responsible for global warming to compensate poor countries for the rising sea levels and climate instability. but no one knows how and when the contributions will work, although we know that the multinationals have already positioned themselves to be the main beneficiaries of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the la via report which the paris agreement ratifies on behalf of the eu. i welcome this historic milestone which will allow the agreement to enter into force today, as it secures ratification by 55 parties to the partnership representing at least 55% of total emissions, following the ratifications by the us, china and india. portugal had already made its contribution, being the fifth eu country to ratify the agreement at a parliamentary session held on 30 september 2016. i would stress that the paris agreement is a global partnership that is crucial for the environmental sustainability of the planet and for giving a new impetus to the global economy. in fact, a new notion of universality of commitment emerges from the paris agreement, which is of a hybrid nature combining binding legal provisions and voluntary commitments, with the aim of achieving a decarbonisation of the global economy through 'nationally determined contributions'. i stress that to succeed, the key now is to implement concrete decarbonisation actions on a global scale to meet the target of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees celsius.
‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and to countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the cleaning up of the areas affected by the disaster. on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by a 6.1 earthquake in the richter scale - affecting the ionian islands region - causing deaths, destruction of housing, significant damage to the infrastructure network and buildings and sites of cultural interest, and some of the most important tourist beaches were destroyed. following the disaster, greece requested assistance from the european union solidarity fund. i supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 651 834 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund to alleviate the pain, suffering and loss of the people affected by the disaster.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (the 'fund') aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and the fund's intervention should not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. greece submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following an earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. i therefore agree that the fund should be mobilised to the tune of eur 50 million to meet the request made by the greeks.
‒ the ionian islands in greece were hit in november 2015 by an earthquake that caused considerable destruction and led the greek authorities in february 2016 to submit an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf). now, almost a year after the disaster, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the eusf. as there are still available appropriations in the eusf for 2016, it is proposed to provide the amount of eur 1 651 834 to greece in commitment and payment appropriations. the eu is fully justified in mobilizing this support for greece, given the known pattern of continued aggression against that country, notably through the successive troika memoranda which have destroyed economic structures and devastated it socially. we voted in favour. but this situation has put the need to change the rules for the mobilisation of the eusf back on the agenda, so as to allow for a more expeditious and timely mobilisation. it is not understandable that it is only almost a year after the disaster that the aid is mobilised, which is often needed immediately, either to protect the safety of people and property or to make good the damage caused, and to try to normalise economic and social life in the affected region as soon as possible.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the earthquakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight were injured, 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were deemed uninhabitable. significant damage was reported to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. some of the most important tourist beaches were destroyed in lefkada. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the eusf aims to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the eusf was requested to be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance following the disaster in greece, resulting from the earthquake with a magnitude of 6,1 on the richter scale, which affected the region of the ionian islands, namely the island of lefkada and the northern regions of kefalonia and ithaca, on 17 november 2015. this disaster caused the death of two people, eight were injured, 120 homes were damaged, of which 20 were considered uninhabitable. there was also considerable damage to public infrastructure (infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites, as well as some of the most important tourist beaches in lefkada). i support the mobilisation of the eusf in this case because it meets the requirements, because of the impact on the local community and economy and because of the enormous damage that has been done to the region, not only to public infrastructure but also to private property and businesses, as well as to the cultural and tourism sector.
‒ the ionian islands in greece were hit in november 2015 by an earthquake that caused considerable destruction and led the greek authorities in february 2016 to submit an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf). now, almost a year after the disaster, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the eusf. as there are still available appropriations in the eusf for 2016, it is proposed to provide the amount of eur 1 651 834 to greece in commitment and payment appropriations. the eu is fully justified in mobilizing this support for greece, given the known pattern of continued aggression against that country, notably through the successive troika memoranda which have destroyed economic structures and devastated it socially. we voted in favour. but this situation has put the need to change the rules for the mobilisation of the eusf back on the agenda, so as to allow for a more expeditious and timely mobilisation. it is not understandable that it is only almost a year after the disaster that the aid is mobilised, which is often needed immediately, either to protect the safety of people and property or to make good the damage caused, and to try to normalise economic and social life in the affected region as soon as possible.
in writing. this report proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to greece following the natural disasters which occurred in the previous year. on 17 november 2015, the ionian islands were subjected to an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the earthquake brought vast consequences, such as the loss of the lives of two inhabitants, eight injured and various and extensive damage to infrastructure systems, buildings and cultural sites. the estimated damage was in the region of eur 66 million, which in the region concerned represents 2,1% of gdp, and the event could therefore be described as a regional disaster. in the case of previous practices, the commission proposed that the fund should provide financial support of 2.5% of the total damage suffered. if this figure is € 1 651 834, and the commission has already advanced by 10% in march, the amount to be mobilised is € 1 487 036. as this is an appropriate use of the eusf, whose purpose is to help in situations of this nature, i vote in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty, the affected region falls under the category of 'less developed regions' for the purposes of the european structural and investment funds (2014-2020) and where two people lost their lives, eight were injured, 120 dwellings were damaged, of which 20 were considered uninhabitable. significant damage was recorded to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. some of the most important tourist beaches were destroyed in lefkada. i therefore voted in favour of this report because of the respect for human rights.
in november 2015, greece was struck by tragic earthquakes with a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale, which mainly affected the ionian islands, causing the death of two people, eight injuries, more than a hundred destroyed houses and extensive damage to public infrastructure and tourist-cultural heritage. the losses calculated by the greek authorities amount to more than eur 65 million and this disaster has been classified as a regional disaster, taking into account the criteria contained in the european union solidarity fund regulation. this region is classified as a 'least developed region' for the purposes of the european structural and investment funds and, to date, the commission has already advanced 10% of the contribution from the european union solidarity fund (eusf), which is precisely intended to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations arising from natural disasters. i agree with the total amount of financial assistance - € 1 651 834 (in commitment and payment appropriations to be granted to greece under the eusf) as it is in line with the ceiling of € 552 million applicable to the eusf and does not require any amendment to the 2016 budget.
‒ following the devastating earthquake that hit the ionian islands in november 2015, greece submitted an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund on 5 february 2016. as there are still appropriations available in the european solidarity fund for 2016, it is proposed to provide the amount of eur 1 651 834 to greece in commitment and payment appropriations. we support but regret the delay in the process.
‒ i support the sarvama report which will allow the use of eur 5.364.000 from the globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft mobile oy and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland. the redundancies were triggered by the decrease in the market share of its windows mobile phones from more than 50% in 2009 to 0,6% in the second quarter of 2016. the redundancies are part of the trend affecting the entire finnish electronics industry since the decline of nokia in its home country. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved.
in writing. the request concerns a total of 2 161 workers made redundant at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers (1 889 workers) between september 2015 and january 2016, with 3 finnish regions affected (helsinki-uusimaa, south finland, west finland). initially, microsoft re-employed some nokia workers who had received support from the globalisation adjustment fund (gef). nokia moved production lines to the far east, then closed some of the more specialized production areas, finally selling to microsoft in 2013 the production of mobile phones, and now until it is being closed. another example of relocation, another procession of destruction and unemployment, another few thousand victims of the reigning neoliberalism. the resolution makes the usual recommendations. but it makes no reference to the fact that the workers resulting from the nokia redundancies had already received 'help' from the egf, and there was therefore a breach of the egf's presumption at least as regards the provision of secure long-term contracts to the workers, which reduces the weight of those recommendations. the need to support the workers made redundant is still felt, but the way in which this instrument has been used is deplorable.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to finland, which submitted an application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, under the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation, following 2161 redundancies in microsoft mobile oy and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in the economic activity classified under nace revision 2 division 62 (consulting and related activities of computer programming). that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in microsoft mobile oy and in eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in the economic activity sector classified in nace revision 2 division 62 (consulting and related computer programming activities). i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies. i believe that the measures for the reintegration of workers should be approved.
in writing. the request concerns a total of 2 161 workers made redundant at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers (1 889 workers) between september 2015 and january 2016, with 3 finnish regions affected (helsinki-uusimaa, south finland, west finland). initially, microsoft re-employed some nokia workers who had received support from the globalisation adjustment fund (gef). nokia moved production lines to the far east, then closed some of the more specialized production areas, finally selling to microsoft in 2013 the production of mobile phones, and now until it is being closed. another example of relocation, another procession of destruction and unemployment, another few thousand victims of the reigning neoliberalism. the resolution makes the usual recommendations. but it makes no reference to the fact that the workers resulting from the nokia redundancies had already received 'help' from the egf, and there was therefore a breach of the egf's presumption at least as regards the provision of secure long-term contracts to the workers, which reduces the weight of those recommendations. the need to support the workers made redundant is still felt, but the way in which this instrument has been used is deplorable.
‒ as a mechanism designed to provide support to workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed for cases such as the present one. the application for the fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft was submitted to the commission on 11 march 2016. the source of the workforce cuts appears to be the decline in microsoft's mobile phone market share, as well as the major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, more specifically the increase in competition from china and the united states. the dismissal of 1 441 employees of the company - a serious social consequence of the crisis referred to above - therefore justifies the mobilisation of the egf. in order to support the 1 441 european citizens who find themselves in this precarious situation and to ensure that they benefit from such relevant measures as access to counselling services and training aimed at re-entering the labour market, i am voting in favour of adopting the report.
‒ i voted in favour, as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and the finnish authorities claim that the source of the microsoft job cuts is the decline in the market share of its mobile phones. understanding the relationship between redundancies and the major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, recalling that the union's share of employment in the ict sector has decreased while the share of china and the united states has increased. it is essential to reverse this declining trend, which affects the entire finnish electronics industry, with the loss of 2 300 jobs in finland expected, and which is linked to the decline of nokia, which sold its mobile telephony business to microsoft.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include the possibility of a reduction in the number of working days for workers in the sector of the information society. a total of € 1 365 000 from the eag is to be mobilised to support the reintegration into work of 1 441 of the 2 161 workers made redundant as a result of the decline in microsoft's mobile phone market share and the decline in the european union's share of employment in the ict sector. the commission has concluded that the conditions for the award of the eagf are met and that this financial support is channelled to vocational support measures, training, recruitment grants and business creation, so there are no grounds for objecting to the approval of this mobilisation, and i have therefore voted in favour.
‒ the request concerns a total of 2 161 workers made redundant at microsoft and 8 suppliers and downstream producers (1 889 workers at microsoft alone) between september 2015 and january 2016, with 3 finnish regions affected (helsinki-uusimaa, south finland, west finland). initially, microsoft re-employed some nokia workers who had received an egf. nokia moved production lines to the far east, then closed some of the more specialized production areas, finally selling to microsoft in 2013 the production of mobile phones and now until it is being closed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. just a few months later, microsoft announced its plans to cut 18 000 jobs, with 1 100 finnish workers eventually reaching the current number of workers being laid off. this situation is intolerable and deserves our total repudiation. our vote in favour is based on respect for and understanding of the plight of the workers concerned. our fight is against this bedouin capitalism, demanding firm measures against these practices.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the egf should be used to provide financial support for the restructuring of the steel industry in the european union. the redundancies were caused by stagnating growth and increased competition from asian countries which had become a destination for outsourcing, leading erickson to gradually reduce its workforce in sweden. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. sweden submitted an application following redundancies in the manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products, and provides for 918 of the 1 556 redundant workers eligible for egf support to participate in the measures. i voted in favour of the financial contribution of eur 3 957 918.
‒ this request by sweden concerns 1 556 workers made redundant, all ericsson employees, due to the closure of their wireless communication hardware production unit. the five regions most affected are stockholm and östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige. the majority of redundancies occurred in the kista area (762 workers). ericsson shifted most of its hardware production and development to asia (mostly to india), increasing from 56 000 employees in 2005 to over 118 000 in 2014 globally. this means that while it doubled its recruitment worldwide, it has been gradually reducing it in sweden (21 178 in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014). in 2012, the swedish company sold its entire mobile phone development and production to its competitor sony. this is predatory and exploitative capitalism at its best. the resolution, without prejudice to positive aspects, does not acknowledge or address the underlying problem. on the contrary, it implicitly defends neoliberalism the cause of relocations, through its broad dominance on a global scale by saying it understands ericsson's reasons. support for the workers made redundant is both right and necessary. but above all, we must put an end to the policies that are the cause of these redundancies.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to sweden, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of an application efg/2016/002 se/ericsson following redundancies in the economic activity sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 26 (manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products) mainly in the nuts level 2 regions of stockholm (se11), östra mellansverige (se12), sydsverige (se22) and västsverige (se23), and where it is expected that 918 of the 1 556 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the egf will participate in the measures. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, nace revision 2, division 26 (manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products). i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies. i am in favour of mobilising this fund for the reintegration of workers.
‒ this request by sweden concerns 1 556 workers made redundant, all ericsson employees, due to the closure of their wireless communication hardware production unit. the five regions most affected are stockholm and östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige. the majority of redundancies occurred in the kista area (762 workers). ericsson shifted most of its hardware production and development to asia (mostly to india), increasing from 56 000 employees in 2005 to over 118 000 in 2014 globally. this means that while it doubled its recruitment worldwide, it has been gradually reducing it in sweden (21 178 in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014). in 2012, the swedish company sold its entire mobile phone development and production to its competitor sony. this is predatory and exploitative capitalism at its best. the resolution, without prejudice to positive aspects, does not acknowledge or address the underlying problem. on the contrary, it implicitly defends neoliberalism the cause of relocations, through its broad dominance on a global scale by saying it understands ericsson's reasons. support for the workers made redundant is both right and necessary. but above all, we must put an end to the policies that are the cause of these redundancies.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns. since its creation, the fund has enabled thousands of newly unemployed people to access professional counselling services for re-entry into the labour market, as well as supporting the creation of their own businesses and new education and training opportunities. following a redundancy of 918 employees at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, the application to the fund was submitted in march 2016. the commission found that the application complied with the relevant provisions of the regulation on the globalisation adjustment fund and that the amount of the fund mobilised was € 3 957 918. this report defends the vital importance of the egf as an emergency instrument to tackle the scourge of unemployment in the context of today's social market economy. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that it is imperative to show solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs in large-scale redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or crises. this report concerns the dismissal of 918 workers by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, a company active in the 'manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products' and in respect of which the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden to support reintegration into the labour market.
‒ in view of the major structural changes in world trade patterns in recent years, especially in the information and communication technology sector, much of the production is expanding its operations to asia and reducing its workforce in europe. in view of this, a number of european companies have been forced to make collective redundancies in these sectors. this is also the case for the swedish company telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, which operates in the manufacture of computer equipment, communication equipment, electronic and optical products and which was forced to lay off 918 workers as a result of the relocation of its software development division to asia. following the examination by the european commission of the application submitted by sweden, the necessary regulatory conditions were found to be met for the mobilisation of the egf, totalling € 3 957 918, to support measures in favour of workers in the fields of vocational guidance and counselling, education and training and the granting of grants for active job search, and i therefore considered that there were no grounds for opposing its approval.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has as its main function to support people who, due to major structural changes in international trade as a result of globalisation or even due to some kind of macroeconomic and financial crisis, have lost their jobs. i voted in favour of this application of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers who have been made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson.
‒ this request concerns 1 556 workers made redundant, all ericsson employees in sweden, due to the closure of their wireless communication hardware production facility. the five regions most affected are stockholm, östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige, with the majority of redundancies in the kista area (762 workers laid off). ericsson shifted most of its hardware production and development to asia (mostly to india), increasing from 56 000 employees in 2005 to over 118 000 in 2014 globally. this means that while it doubled its recruitment worldwide, it has been gradually reducing it in sweden (21 178 in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014). this situation is intolerable and deserves our total repudiation. our vote in favour is based on respect for and understanding of the plight of the workers concerned. our fight is against this bedouin capitalism, demanding firm measures against these practices.
‒ the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a legal action brought for an alleged offence. the case occurred more than 20 years ago and the greek courts were not able to bring a case against the member, and it is therefore not related to the status of member of the european parliament. i agree with the waiver of parliamentary immunity, since it has the consent of the member himself.
‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a legal action brought for an alleged offence relating to the breach of certain legal obligations. the case concerned discussions dating back to 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance contract in addition to the compulsory insurance contract for all employees of the university of crete and the making of allegedly illegal payments in successive instalments during the period 2000-2002. the case is in no way connected with the status of member of the european parliament, since it concerns the duties which that member of parliament previously held as rector of the senate of the university of crete. this process is not considered to be intended to cause political harm to the member concerned. the case in question was closed for other defendants, due to the 15-year statute of limitations for the alleged crimes, while others were definitively acquitted of all charges by the court. the waiver of immunity is entirely justified. we voted in favour.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the central district court of pest has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, mr giorgos grammatikakis. the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of the hellenic republic requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis in the context of a legal action brought for an alleged offence. the case concerned the discussion on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance contract, in addition to the compulsory insurance contract, for all employees of the university of crete and the making of allegedly illegal payments in successive instalments during the period 2000-2002. the case in question is not related to the status of member of parliament, since it relates to his previous duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i shall vote in favour of this report, after all the legal procedures have been completed, because the offence in question is not in any way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and, finally, because that is the wish of the member himself.
‒ the report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, in the context of a legal action brought for an alleged offence relating to the breach of certain legal obligations. the case concerned the discussion on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance contract, in addition to the compulsory insurance contract, for all employees of the university of crete and the making of allegedly illegal payments in successive instalments during the period 2000-2002. the case concerns his previous duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete and therefore has no relation to his status as a member of the european parliament. this process is not considered politically motivated by what we voted for.
‒ the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of the initiation of an investigation procedure concerning an alleged offence. the action brought relates to the abuse of trust in the performance of his duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete, with the participation of others, during the period 2000-2002. the case concerned the discussion on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance contract, in addition to the compulsory insurance contract, for all employees of the university of crete and the making of allegedly illegal payments in successive instalments during the period 2000-2002. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis.
‒ the process of lifting the parliamentary immunity of mr grammatikakis, which he himself requested, is not related to his activity as a member of the european parliament.
‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis. the request was made by the supreme court of the hellenic republic on 1 april 2016 and concerns a legal action brought for an alleged offence. since this is alleged conduct outside his mandate as an mep (and is related to his previous duties as rector of the senate of the university of crete) and there is no reason to believe that there are intentions underlying the legal action to harm his political activity, i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, as was the wish expressed by the member concerned, who said he wanted to see this long judicial process ended.
‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a legal action brought for an alleged offence relating to the breach of certain legal obligations. the case concerned the discussion on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance contract, in addition to the compulsory insurance contract, for all employees of the university of crete and the making of allegedly illegal payments in successive instalments during the period 2000-2002. the case is in no way connected with the status of member of the european parliament, since it concerns the duties which that member of parliament previously held as rector of the senate of the university of crete. this process is not considered to be intended to cause political harm to the member concerned. the case in question was closed for many coargued members of the senate of the university of crete and the elke commission due to the 15-year statute of limitations for the alleged crimes, while others were definitively acquitted of all charges by the court in may 2016.
‒ the proposal for a directive on legal aid is also part of the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, adopted in 2009 and which has been followed up over the years. compromise has been particularly difficult in this area, given the diversity of legal cultures and also the sensitivity of the criminal procedure - a cornerstone of the essential core of sovereignty of states. for this reason, and despite the long process, the harmonization achieved is of the utmost importance and must be valued. in particular, the outcome could have been better in the area of legal aid. parliament's position was to ensure support for economically deprived suspects and accused persons, irrespective of deprivation of liberty. however, the council was intransigent and had been blocking the adoption of this instrument since 2014. however, parliament has managed to extend the scope of the directive, ensuring that it protects not only provisionally but permanently as well. parliament has therefore decided to accept this compromise, which, although not the best, will certainly ensure the effective exercise of the right of defence by many europeans.
‒ judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. the council approved the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings which identifies as the right to legal aid and legal aid. the commission proposal is an important step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. however, i consider that defendants, suspects or wanted persons may feel inhibited from seeking legal aid if member states can require them to pay the costs relating to provisional legal aid because they do not meet the eligibility criteria. it is therefore fair to limit the recovery of costs to cases where defendants, suspects or wanted persons intentionally provide false information.
‒ the right to legal aid is intrinsically linked to the right of access to a lawyer. the european commission's proposal aims to ensure a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. however, it is limited to the right to provisional legal aid of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of liberty, as well as to the right to provisional legal aid and to legal aid of persons wanted in the context of proceedings for the execution of european arrest warrants. the commission has presented, in a separate recommendation, additional aspects of the right to legal aid. the rapporteur believes that this fragmented approach may reflect the sensitivity of the matter, but does not increase legal certainty or make clear to suspects or accused persons to what extent they will actually be entitled to legal aid or what the quality of legal aid will be. the scope of the directive should include the right to provisional and ordinary legal aid in all circumstances. in general, this report is moving in a positive direction, which we support. for several member states this is a clear step forward. but it is still short of the concrete measures and resources which guarantee universal access, free of charge, to legal aid for defendants, as one of the most basic rights to defence and dignity.
‒ this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to establish a set of common minimum standards on the right of suspects or accused persons to provisional legal aid in criminal proceedings if they are deprived of liberty and on the right of persons subject to proceedings under framework decision 2002/584/jha on the european arrest warrant (the 'wanted persons') to provisional legal aid, whether provisional or not. the directive aims to ensure that suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and persons subject to european arrest warrant proceedings have access to legal aid to exercise their right of access to a lawyer, as provided for in the directive on this matter. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this proposal concerns interim judicial support for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and judicial support in proceedings for the execution of european arrest warrants. legal aid can ensure the effective exercise of the right of access to a lawyer for those who do not have the necessary financial means. i agree with the rapporteur that defendants, suspects or wanted persons may feel inhibited from seeking legal aid if member states can require them to pay the costs of interim legal aid because they do not meet the eligibility criteria. it therefore seems fair to limit the recovery of costs to cases where defendants, suspects or wanted persons intentionally provide false information. i believe that the scope of the directive should cover the right to provisional and ordinary legal aid in all circumstances. therefore, the directive should have the same scope as directive 2013/48/eu on the right of access to a lawyer.
‒ the general approach set out in the commission proposal is limited in its content, despite improving the existing legal protection framework. we point out as less positive technical elements of making this guarantee conditional on the financial situation of the person concerned, together with an assessment of the merits, that is, an assessment of the interests of justice, situations which are included in the commission's proposal and which stand out more assertively in the proposal presented by the european parliament, thus demonstrating the presence of some mechanisms which place limitations on the guarantee of universality in access to justice. the presence of a non-refoulement clause ensures that rights and guarantees established in any member state providing for a higher level of protection, such as in the case of portugal, cannot be derogated from or limited. a proposal which falls far short of what is enshrined in article 20 (1) of the crp: 'everyone shall be guaranteed access to the law and to the courts for the protection of his rights and legally protected interests, and justice shall not be denied on the grounds of insufficient economic means'. we also note that no reference is made to the political choices that in many countries, such as portugal, have deepened structural problems in the justice system.
‒ the implementation of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions presupposes that each member state has confidence in the criminal justice systems of the other member states, including in the way the rights of suspects or accused persons are safeguarded. differences in the interpretation of the right to a fair trial constitute an obstacle to justice and to the effectiveness of cooperation in criminal matters. the commission proposal is thus an important step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the rapporteur believes that the current approach may reflect the sensitivity of the matter, but does not increase legal certainty or make clear to suspects or accused persons to what extent they will actually be entitled to legal aid or what the quality of legal aid will be. it also considers that defendants, suspects or wanted persons may feel inhibited from seeking legal aid if member states can require them to pay the costs of interim legal aid because they do not meet the eligibility criteria. the rapporteur also believes that member states have difficulty in collecting data on the implementation of the directive in each individual case. in this context, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ we must continue to work towards strengthening the rights of suspects and accused persons by establishing common minimum standards on the right to a fair trial. the existence of common minimum standards governing these rights will contribute to increasing mutual trust between judicial authorities, thus facilitating the application of the principle of mutual recognition. a degree of compatibility between the laws of the member states is essential to improve judicial cooperation in the union. those minimum rules should also take into account the differences between the legal traditions and systems of the member states.
‒ it is at the initial stage of the proceedings, especially when deprived of liberty, that suspects or accused persons are in a most vulnerable situation and in greatest need of legal assistance. this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to strengthen the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings by establishing common minimum standards governing those rights, thereby contributing to increasing mutual trust between judicial authorities. compatibility between the laws of the member states is therefore essential to improve judicial cooperation in the union. however, the approach initially proposed did not increase legal certainty or make clear to suspects or accused persons to what extent they would be entitled to legal aid or what the quality of legal aid would be, and therefore the right to legal aid in all circumstances should be included in the scope of application. it was considered relevant to also include in the directive the provision that the preference/will of suspects or accused persons should be taken into account as far as possible in the choice of a lawyer and that provision should be made for the replacement of a lawyer in the event of loss of confidence. i agree with the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
‒ the right to legal aid is intrinsically linked to the right of access to a lawyer, in respect of which the european parliament and the council adopted directive 2013/48/eu of 22 october 2013. for those who do not have the necessary financial means, only legal aid can ensure the effective exercise of the right of access to a lawyer. the costs of providing legal aid should be borne by the defendant or by the person seeking legal aid. it seems fair to limit the recovery of costs to cases where the accused, suspect or wanted person intentionally provides false information. the report is moving in a generally positive direction, which we support. but it still lacks the recognition, the concrete measures and remedies that guarantee universal access, free of charge, to legal aid for defendants, as one of the most basic rights to defence and dignity. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de jong report for agreeing to the application of minimum rules on legal aid throughout the european union. i would particularly like to stress that the european socialist group has succeeded in extending the scope of the directive to cover all cases of legal aid and not just cases of provisional legal aid as envisaged in the original proposal of the european commission. at a time when the number of legal instruments in criminal and penal matters to combat terrorism is increasing, it is essential to remember that the european union is based on the rule of law and that this means harmonising the fundamental principles and procedural defence which must be guaranteed to suspects or accused persons accused of committing a crime.
‒ in june 2005, the council of the european union adopted regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment or for the purpose of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, which allows, by means of a delegated act, for the revision of the control lists (set out in its annexes). these eu control mechanisms are not just trade control mechanisms but cover policy guidelines, in particular preventing and prohibiting the production, trade and use of goods which are intended for torture or which could be used for lethal or inhuman purposes. i therefore support the schaake report on the revision of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 which strengthens controls on instruments of torture by adding a new specific annex to prevent medicines from being used to apply the death penalty by lethal injection, by prohibiting brokering services for prohibited goods, by creating a union general export authorisation and by providing for a new emergency procedure which will allow a rapid response to the circulation of new products which may appear on the market and which are likely to be used in acts of torture.
‒ the aim of this regulation is to prevent eu exports from contributing to human rights violations in third countries. it therefore reviews eu controls on trade in instruments of torture. this legislation aims to close the loopholes in the current eu regime, including new clauses restricting and prohibiting advisory services, transport, brokering, advertising and promotion of risky or prohibited products, such as at trade fairs, exhibitions and on the internet. the regulation also provides for a new urgency procedure, which will allow a rapid response to the circulation of new products which may appear on the market and which are likely to be used in acts of torture. i voted in favour.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which aims to combat torture, is an instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation establishes a prohibition on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and executions and related technical assistance (annex ii) and a system of authorisation for versatile products that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection (annex iii). it is now proposed to strengthen controls on instruments of torture. the lists of specific items provide clarity for exporters and importers and help to ensure compliance with the rules. in a context of increasingly complex external trade operations, the key role of effective implementation of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions by national authorities is emphasised. a system of periodic reporting and review, consistent with other export control regimes, would appear to be appropriate. the objectives of the regulation appear to be fair and the means it defines proportionate.
in writing. ‒ in june 2005, the council of the european union adopted regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment or for the purpose of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation entered into force on 30 july 2006. i agree with this proposal and with the ban on trade in these substances. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the anti-torture regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are or may be used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the 'anti-torture regulation' contributes to the eu's long-standing policy to eliminate the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. it contributes to these objectives by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in the listed products. i support the need to review the rules on eu controls on trade in instruments of torture and to update the control lists. it is essential to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures in order to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of products intended for torture and to effectively control products liable to lethal and inhumane uses.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which aims to combat torture, is an instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation establishes a prohibition on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and executions and related technical assistance (annex ii) and a system of authorisation for versatile products that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection (annex iii). it is now proposed to strengthen controls on instruments of torture. the lists of specific items provide clarity for exporters and importers and help to ensure compliance with the rules. in a context of increasingly complex external trade operations, the key role of effective implementation of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions by national authorities is emphasised. a system of periodic reporting and review, consistent with other export control regimes, would appear to be appropriate. the objectives of the regulation appear to be fair and the means it defines proportionate.
‒ the european union has for many years taken a firm stand against the use of the death penalty, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the adoption by the council of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 reiterates the intention to eliminate such practices. thus, by establishing export control mechanisms at union level, it becomes possible to prohibit the export of goods whose destination may be related to acts of torture or used for lethal purposes. the revision of the regulation aims to strengthen and update the checklists in the annexes to the diploma, to extend the ban on brokering and technical assistance services to controlled products, to introduce a union general export authorisation and to create urgent procedures to allow for rapid amendment of its annexes. as it is essential to ensure an appropriate combination of legislative, administrative and judicial measures against the trade in products which are liable to be lethal or inhuman, i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour, as i consider it imperative to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures in order to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture and to effectively control products which could be used for lethal or inhuman purposes. the absence of multilateral export control regimes for goods intended for torture, unlike the 'dual use' regime, inevitably makes this difficult. however, the eu cannot limit its action to eradicate torture to reducing the availability of abusive equipment, to putting an end to circumvention practices and to promoting appropriate controls beyond its borders. trade instruments are part of a comprehensive approach that draws on all eu instruments for external action. it is essential to ensure consistency of eu export controls, including controls on lists of military equipment, dual-use items, firearms and goods for torture, without subjecting goods to duplicate and/or unnecessary controls that may create unnecessary burdens and restrict trade that has a legitimate purpose.
‒ the european union must take up its role in the control of products and activities that are, or may be, used in abusive ways to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. these proposals follow the eu's longstanding policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture. it contributes to these objectives by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in the listed products. this regulation establishes a prohibition on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and execution and their technical assistance, as well as a system of authorisation for versatile products that could be misused for torture and execution by lethal injection. the review of eu controls on trade in instruments of torture is long overdue and the updating of the control lists is another step in the right direction.
‒ export control mechanisms at eu level are trade policy instruments serving a set of broader policy objectives. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which aims to combat the use of torture, is an instrument that promotes the protection of human rights through the control of products and activities that are, or may be, abused for the purpose of capital punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the anti-torture regulation aims to contribute to the eu's long-standing political objective of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and combating the use of torture. the review of community controls on trade in instruments of torture has been long awaited. it is therefore important to ensure an appropriate combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures in order to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture and to effectively control products that could be used for lethal or inhuman purposes. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its content.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which aims to combat torture, is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling products and activities that are, or may be, used improperly to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the regulation establishes a prohibition on trade in 'single-use' products intended for torture and executions and related technical assistance (annex ii) and a system of authorisation for versatile products that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection (annex iii). the commission proposes to strengthen controls on instruments of torture. in a context where external trade operations are becoming increasingly complex, the role of effective enforcement of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions carried out by national authorities is crucial. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the schaake report for agreeing to the progressive abolition of the export of goods which could be used to apply the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, particularly in countries which still apply the death penalty. the new rules will allow eu authorities to react more quickly to new forms of torture or cruel treatment by regulating their sale online, for example. i note that trade is not an end in itself but a tool that should serve to improve people's lives and therefore i understand that the eu can and should use its trade influence to promote human rights.
‒ within the framework of its mandate, europol may conclude agreements with third countries and other organisations to establish cooperation channels, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. in this context, it is for parliament, having regard to the agreement reached, to consent to its signature by europol. this is a given, a proof that all legal requirements have been met and that all safeguards for european citizens have been guaranteed. this agreement with china is of particular importance as it is public and well known that it is a country of origin, transit and destination for organised crime groups with global impact.
‒ according to europol, china is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, transit and destination in areas such as support for illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, violations of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as money laundering and cybercrime. this document concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations.
‒ this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the information exchanged may include specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. like other european union agencies, europol is a structure created to enforce the implementation of a path of progressive federalisation, and moreover in particularly sensitive areas which touch the heart of the sovereignty of states, because they interfere with rights, freedoms and guarantees. since its creation, it has been given powers which undermine the sovereignty of states, and its activities have been carried out without any democratic control. we believe that europol should not override national police forces and their activities and we support cooperation between the internal and external security structures of the various countries. our vote against this report is therefore inseparable from our position of principle on europol.
‒ this document concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. a strategic agreement of this nature excludes the exchange of personal data, so that the issue of data protection is not relevant in the present case. the information exchanged may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the proposed strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol is a strategic cooperation agreement concerning the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. in this case, it excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant. the information exchanged may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. according to europol, china is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime in situations such as facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as activities related to money laundering and cybercrime. i am in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, as i believe that it will be an important step in the fight against organised crime and will contribute to greater international cooperation in the field of good law enforcement.
‒ this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the people's republic of china. the information exchanged may include specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. like other european union agencies, europol is a structure set up to enforce the implementation of the path to federalisation. since its creation, the eu has been entrusted with powers that undermine the sovereignty of states, and has been operating without any democratic control. we believe that europol should not override national police forces and their activities, and we support cooperation between the internal and external security structures of the various countries. we voted against it.
in writing. - this report approves the council's draft authorising europol to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with china. according to europol, china is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, transit and destination for various organised crime networks. i would like to stress that this cooperation agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, but instead there is exchange of expertise (benchmarking), training activities, information on criminal investigation processes, crime prevention methods, among other matters of particular relevance in the fight against organised crime. as this cooperation will promote the progress of the rule of law in the field of relations between europol and china, while safeguarding the privacy of european citizens, i am voting in favour of this report.
‒ this document concerns the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. a strategic agreement of this nature excludes the exchange of personal data, so in this case the issue of data protection is not relevant. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, etc. it is reasonable to assume that there are clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with china. according to europol, china is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, transit and destination in areas such as support for illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, violations of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as money laundering and cybercrime activities. the rapporteur is in favour of the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it supports and intensifies the fight against organised crime and will contribute to greater international cooperation in law enforcement. i voted in favour of this report.
‒ according to europol, china is increasingly a relevant partner in the fight against organised crime. this agreement relates to the exchange of classified operational, strategic and technical information (specialised knowledge, strategic analysis, information on criminal proceedings, crime prevention methods, etc.). it doesn't include the exchange of personal information.
in writing. ‒ there are currently clear operational needs for closer cooperation between europol and the chinese authorities. china is a key country in the fight against organised crime as a country of origin, transit and destination in areas such as support for illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as activities related to money laundering and cybercrime. this report therefore concerns the proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china, and the information exchanged will include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes and methods of crime prevention, training activities or advice and support in certain criminal investigations, which requires this analysis, discussion and vote in the european parliament. i voted in favour of concluding this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it aims to intensify the fight against organised crime, thus contributing to greater cooperation at international level.
‒ my vote in favour of this strategic agreement between europol and china is due to the need to step up the fight against organised crime. exchanges of expertise, prevention methods, training activities on both sides and the support to criminal and criminal investigation itself are important. greater international cooperation in terms of transnational security is needed and this agreement is a positive step in that direction.
‒ this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the information exchanged may include specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. like other european union agencies, europol is a structure set up to enforce the implementation of the federalisation process. since its creation, the eu has given this structure powers that undermine the sovereignty of the states, and it has been operating without any democratic control. we believe that europol should not override national police forces and their activities and we support cooperation between the internal and external security structures of the various countries. we voted against it.
‒ the current eu-acp partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2000, has since formed the framework for the eu's relations with 78 countries in sub-saharan africa, the caribbean and the pacific. that agreement, revised in 2005 and 2010, as provided for in its provisions, was concluded for a period of 20 years and expires on 29 february 2020. it is a legally binding instrument which creates common institutions and defines a framework for dialogue with each of its members, including a major political, economic and trade cooperation dimension, as well as a development finance cooperation dimension (linked to the european development fund). i support the neuser report as i consider it important that in relations after 2020 this multi-faceted dimension of the acp-eu partnership based on respect for the human rights acquis, good governance and democracy (included also in the economic partnership agreements) is emphasised and that a new agreement includes the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda and from the institutional point of view a strong parliamentary dimension and the inclusion of regional infrastructures.
‒ more than 80% of the world's least developed countries are located in acp regions and together account for less than 5% of world trade and approximately 2% of world gdp. some eur 900 million is earmarked for the african peace facility and some eur 1.4 billion from the edf reserve will be used for the eu trust fund for africa. acp-eu cooperation is a unique and valuable achievement, which has strengthened the ties between the peoples and countries of the acp and the eu member states and their national parliaments over the past 40 years. however, in order to improve the effectiveness of cooperation and to adapt it to new challenges, it is necessary to adopt a new structure that maintains the parts of the acp-eu acquis that are universal in character, such as the commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy, the objective of the rule of law and the exchange of best practices under a common framework.
in writing. ‒ as we have said, there is a need for a change in the relationship between the eu and the acp countries, which is now governed by the cotonou agreement. that is not the view underlying this report, quite the contrary. the report calls for a more in-depth and critical approach to the relations of dependence and subordination to which the acp countries have been subjected and the role of eu policies in establishing these relations, but in essence it endorses the course taken in recent years. when the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas) imposed by the eu and the consequences of their implementation were called for criticism, the epas were not criticised or scrutinized, but were seen as the instrument that should frame relations between the eu and the acp countries, because they were supposedly promoting growth and development. when a new framework for cooperation was called for, genuinely capable of promoting the sovereign development of the acp countries, the report ignores this need, does not address hot-button problems such as the illegal exploitation and expropriation of natural resources by foreign interests in the acp countries, ignores the will, opinion and participation of the acp countries, giving greater importance to the affirmation (explicit or implicit) of the eu's geo-strategic interests. we voted against it.
‒ in recent years, development policy has been given a new impetus both at eu and international level. the eu must continue to focus on deepening relations with the acp countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the current relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the european union have not produced much for the parties to the agreement. after the cotonou agreement, it is vital to prepare a more effective and efficient framework and, more importantly, one that is adapted to new and emerging global challenges. this new framework should be defined in close cooperation with the acp countries, including civil society, and in coordination with regional organisations, and should build on the lessons learned from the cotonou partnership agreement, in order to avoid duplication of efforts and structures. i believe that in the post-cotonou framework there should be mechanisms to facilitate trade and that growth and development should be its main objectives. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to have a renewed acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and to have it involved at all stages of the discussions on the post-cotonou framework, and that there should be strict parliamentary control of the future framework.
in writing. ‒ as we have said, there is a need for a change in the relationship between the eu and the acp countries, which is now governed by the cotonou agreement. that is not the view underlying this report, quite the contrary. the report calls for a more in-depth and critical approach to the relations of dependence and subordination to which the acp countries have been subjected and the role of eu policies in establishing these relations, but in essence it endorses the course taken in recent years. when the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas) imposed by the eu and the consequences of their implementation were called for criticism, the epas were not criticised or scrutinized, but were seen as the instrument that should frame relations between the eu and the acp countries, because they were supposedly promoting growth and development. when a new framework of cooperation was called for which was genuinely capable of promoting the sovereign development of the acp countries, the report ignores this need, does not address hot-button problems such as the illegal exploitation and expropriation of natural resources by foreign interests in the acp countries, ignores the will, opinion and participation of the acp countries, giving greater importance to the affirmation (explicit or implicit) of the eu's geo-strategic interests. we voted against it.
in writing. legitimised by the cotonou agreement, initially signed in 2003, the partnership between the 79-nation african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of countries and the 28-member european union (eu) is a binding document with an unprecedentedly large number of members. the cotonou agreement has as its main pillar the reduction and eradication of poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp states into the world economy. the agreement is based on a set of values such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. but it will be exhausted before december 2016. the overall picture is that, despite political rapprochement between the parties and progress in the development of poverty eradication, the results have proved to be insufficient and unequal. this report identifies priority areas for future acp-eu cooperation action, of which i highlight, on the one hand, the need to give binding character to the common frameworks and regional agreements, and, on the other hand, the importance of placing the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals at the heart of the new agreement, and thus the continuation of the priority objective of poverty eradication. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the european parliament, taking into account the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european community and its member states, calls for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be placed at the heart of a new agreement, as well as the establishment of robust follow-up mechanisms, to ensure that the implementation of the agreement promotes and contributes to the sustainable development goals. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted by the council on 14 june. in view of the above, i voted in favour.
‒ cooperation between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union is a unique and valuable achievement that has strengthened the ties between the acp countries and the eu member states and their national parliaments over the past 40 years. in order to improve the effectiveness of cooperation and adapt to new challenges, it is necessary to continue investing in human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy, the rule of law and the exchange of best practices under a common framework, while taking into account specific regional needs.
‒ the cotonou agreement has helped to strengthen political ties between the european union and the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). however, the results of this partnership are not yet visible and acp-eu relations need to adapt to the political, structural and demographic changes that have taken place in the meantime. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to establish a new framework that implements the 2030 agenda and meets the sustainable development goals (sdgs). the future partnership should still meet mutual ambitions, so it is important that there is great clarity from the outset on the priorities identified. the eradication of poverty will have to remain one of the primary objectives of acp-eu cooperation. i also believe that political dialogue must be more effective and better exploited both at the level of governments and at the level of the states themselves as a whole, and that it must be carried out proactively and not just as a crisis management tool. as vice-president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i tabled 23 amendments, and this report therefore contains some of my proposals, particularly on the involvement of local authorities, regional authorities and civil society organisations, and on the maintenance of poverty eradication as one of the primary objectives of the future partnership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it contains very important recommendations and guidelines for the future relationship between the eu and the acp countries after 2020, the year in which the cotonou agreement ends. parliament called for a general, legally binding framework agreement, supplemented by regional agreements adapted to specific needs. the report advocates a partnership agreement focused on sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, with robust follow-up mechanisms, including effective involvement of parliaments, local authorities and civil society. as regards the economic pillar, regional economic partnership agreements - instruments aimed at fostering the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy - should become an important part of the post-cotonou relationship. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade, he stressed in particular the need to strengthen the technical capacity of the acp countries and to ensure adequate union funding for trade assistance programmes. the eu-acp cooperation is a valuable, unique achievement and the post-cotonou framework should continue and strengthen this partnership through a legally binding agreement in the service of development.
‒ the cotonou agreement 'shapes' the cooperation relations between the eu, its 28 member states, and 79 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the cotonou agreement was signed on 23 june 2000 for a period of 20 years, with a review every five years. the revision of the cotonou agreements should lead to a change in the european union's development cooperation and aid policy. this policy must be geared to genuine cooperation and solidarity and contribute to the promotion of the autonomous and sovereign development of the acp countries. there are many mechanisms which today keep many of these countries in a state of domination and subjugation. the suffocating external debt, which is being repaid several times over and which is nevertheless growing, plays a central role in the establishment of this type of relationship. this report continues the same line of neo-colonialism which we cannot accept.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the neuser report which paves the way for strengthening the future of acp-eu relations. i would remind you that this report is the european parliament's contribution to the follow-up to the cotonou international agreement, launched in 2000 and due to expire in 2020. in fact, over the last 40 years, the acp countries and the eu have achieved valuable and unique cooperation through this instrument which has strengthened the ties between these peoples. in terms of procedure, the willingness of the acp countries to undertake joint action as a group is noteworthy, an approach essential to improving the effectiveness of international cooperation by adapting it to new challenges. in terms of content, i advocate that the post-2020 relationship retains those parts of the acp-eu acquis that are universal in character, such as the commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy. in this context, i would also stress that relations after 2020 must be guided by ensuring the strengthening of civil society representation in all cooperation processes.
madam president, it is really painful to see how, after six years of crisis, the european union and greece were not able to deliver a solution for sound recovery. in spite of that, it was possible to identify a clear package deal to do so – a package deal where greece should make a reform effort and should get more means to invest and create jobs and where greece would deliver on fiscal consolidation and should have debt re—profiling. so the deal was clear. i think that so far greece is now delivering on reforms and this is the time to make some effort to re—profile the public debt. the recent imf report on greece is again very clear on this. we cannot just ask for the huge effort of providing a fiscal surplus while, at the same time, we do not push forward this debt re—profiling. so my question for the commission is as follows: the commission is there, and should be there, to recall, in the council, the full logic of the package with the elements – and we know very well what these elements are – and now is the right time for the debt re—profiling to be made. finally, we need to provide the right environment, and this is about completing the economic and monetary union. so my question is: how is the preparation of the promised white paper on emu going?
madam president, commissioner georgieva prepared her candidacy for the united nations while she was on salary from the european commission. duro barroso has formalized his old bond with goldman sachs and moved from a de facto union to a marriage. commissioner cañete, yes, he left the oil lobby to come to the climate and energy portfolio. and this list is far from exhaustive. there is a problem of registration and there is a problem of conflicts of interest, but none of these examples would be solved by the new proposals from the european commission. we need an intertemporal register with absolute incompatibilities over the periods of break and not just relating to the periods in which they hold office, otherwise we will continue to have commissioners who come from industry and to industry they will return. the bottom line is that no one can serve two masters: it cannot serve the financial interests and serve the interests of the citizens at the same time, and so if there are revolving doors, it's because the rooms in these institutions are contiguous. as long as the commission is at the service of the financial interests and not at the service of the interests of the people, we will continue to have these types of commissioners, but the day it is at the service of the people, i guarantee that these commissioners will not even want to go to the commission.
madam president, there is a first fundamental and structural conflict of interest in the european union. the conflict between the interests which the european union defends, the interests of the great powers, the great economic groups, the great financial capital, and the interests of the workers and peoples of europe. everything else we discuss here are expressions, revelations, if you will, of this fundamental reality. it is now known, not surprisingly, that duro barroso already worked for goldman sachs when he was president of the european commission, just as it is known that draghi continues to work for goldman sachs as president of the european central bank, but the problem goes far beyond the so-called revolving door. all the legislation adopted in recent years by the european union in the financial field, to give just one example, has been determined by the interests and direct intervention of the big banks and insurance companies. there is no code of conduct that can alter the matrix, the class nature of this integration process. it will be the struggle of the workers and the peoples to defeat it and to oppose it with the necessary alternative in defence of their own class interests.
madam president, the hiring of the former president of the commission by golden sachs, the cañete case and the concealment of offshore interests by former commissioner kroes feed the populist, euro-phobic discourse because they feed the just mistrust and anger of the citizens. it is unacceptable that barroso continues to receive a pension paid by taxpayers while serving goldman sachs, which he visited in secret in 2013 when he was president of the european commission. an ad hoc ethics committee is not enough. the barroso case should go to the court of justice. rules on revolving doors between the public and private sectors, extending periods of disgust and incompatibilities need to be strengthened. we need sanctions for breaches of the most basic rules of transparency and ethics, we need detailed records of lobbyists' and consultants' financial interests with the commission, parliament and council. the measures proposed by the european commission are clearly insufficient. restoring public confidence requires firm and radical reform. in the european parliament's committee of inquiry into the panama papers and the bahamas leaks, we will work towards that.
mr president, in july i led a delegation from the libé committee to calais. we found two very different realities. in grande-synthe, by the action of a mayor with a humanist sensibility; in calais, by the inaction of a president with a speech hostile to refugees and immigrants. the approach makes all the difference in finding worthy solutions to manage the influx that puts so much pressure on this border region. although the french authorities are accepting asylum applications, the people we spoke to in the jungle do not lose hope of crossing to the uk where they have family, fellow countrymen, and they think they have a future, because they know that the trafficking networks are still active and crossing is just a matter of being able to pay, including hundreds of unaccompanied minors who the uk is slow to reunite with their families. ethiopians i spoke to in the jungle said that hundreds of their countrymen had arrived there weeks earlier, two to three months after leaving their villages, on dangerous journeys, risking their lives. mr president, building walls and refusing to open legal and safe pathways for immigrant refugees is to continue to give business to smuggling networks. it is not only immoral and a violation of human rights, it is ineffective and only aggravates the security of europe. calais could be on any beach in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, youth must be the priority of the european union. young people are essential if the european union is to remain an area of peace, freedom, tolerance, respect for human rights, sharing and solidarity. the diversity of the european union is a wealth that must be valued. to do so, you must first get to know it. this is an opportunity for young people to strengthen contact between different cultures and to better understand the european reality. it facilitates the integration, inclusion and empowerment of young people. mobility also helps the economy and allows us to deepen our sense of belonging to this common space. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is on the table, commissioner, and this is the key moment for us to be able to allocate the appropriate amounts so that this initiative can get off the ground. i hope that the commission and the member states will support this initiative and i take the commissioner's statement as extremely positive so that this initiative can get off the ground. this proposal is complementary. this is a proposal which does not replace any of the existing programmes and obviously it has to be inclusive and involve all young people from all the member states of the european union. it is clear that this initiative does not give young people jobs but broadens horizons, helps to strengthen european citizenship and makes the european union stronger, more united, more solidary, and it is with the commitment of young people that we will continue to have the largest economy on the planet, the welfare state that we all stand for, freedom, democracy, inclusion and tolerance.
the european union's asymmetrical nature is revealed in small as well as in big things. ending roaming in mobile communications is a long-held objective. apparently consensual, it even served as an election propaganda tool. but behind the goodness of the proposal lies the flip side: roaming calls have higher costs than those associated with domestic calls. who will pay these costs? in addition, net tourism receiving areas will experience seasonal increases in pressure on their networks, which may require investment in their strengthening. who pays for them? the operators in these countries have already warned: if it is not possible to reflect these and other costs in the roaming tariffs, they shall be reflected in the national tariffs. so, just to be clear: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. this is the single market in telecommunications. in this as in other sectors, liberalisation and the miracle of free competition serve the aims of monopolistic concentration at european level, and serve neither consumers, nor households, nor firms, nor the national interest.
commissioner, the new legislation on the abolition of costs associated with calls between countries of the european union, which comes into force in june 2017, must ensure the best service for people, greater transparency, transparency for the market, must prevent costs that will no longer be paid by european citizens travelling in the european union from being indirectly imputed to those who do not, and must ensure the effective end of roaming in a framework guaranteeing citizens' privacy rights. the european commission's proposal is based on the principles of portability and reasonableness. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. it is therefore important that the directive be amended to include the following elements: these are the measures we must continue to work on until roaming is implemented as soon as possible, commissioner.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, this parliament has long advocated the need for the european union to have the means to punish crimes of a cross-border nature, in particular those which are against the financial interests of the union. in 2014 alone, almost eur 160 billion in vat revenues were lost. i am sure that the creation of the european public prosecutor's office is a design that we all recognise as desirable. however, it is already common wisdom to say that the devil is in the details. and here we have disagreement and inertia when we need, on the contrary, rapid action and a clear position. a clear position on the powers of the prosecution. a clear position on the relationship with eurojust. a clear position on the structure of the office of the prosecutor which takes into account international best practices such as its independence. a clear position on procedural rights. a clear position on the jurisdictional review to which it would be subject. this parliament has already made its position very clear and will do so again in the resolution we are about to adopt. i believe that the european public prosecutor's office should become a reality very soon, respecting the constitutional traditions of the member states and the highest international standards. and parliament must continue to act in this direction. while it is true that the establishment of this office cannot be done in any form and at any cost, the cost of its non-existence is becoming increasingly incomprehensible.
mr president, we know very well that the european union needs a better roadmap, providing better european solutions. this parliament was able to adopt a strategic resolution with a clear outline of these better european solutions. we also recognise that president juncker, in his state of the union speech, delivered a promising perspective on how to build up these better european solutions. nevertheless, we have to say that the roadmap which was sketched out in the bratislava summit was behind and below what is really needed. we need to be clear on the scope of better european solutions. when it comes to migration, we need to have european borders and we need to go to the root of the problems, but we also need to host and distribute refugees. we cannot just ignore this: the problem is still there. secondly, when it comes to trade, we do of course need to be open to trade, but we also need to protect our social standards. most of all, when we put forward better european solutions to cope with the external challenges, we need to take care of the internal economic and social cohesion of europe. this has to do with growth, jobs, investment and completing the economic and monetary union in such a way that we again have upward convergence. if we do not tackle this problem, we do not have the necessary conditions to move forward with citizens supporting the european union. so i very much hope that you can use the next meetings of the european council to put europe on the right track regarding this better roadmap.
mr president, i would start by saying basically the following: with the united states being occupied with its presidential elections, europe has increased responsibilities in the syrian crisis and it is unthinkable that the council should not deal with this issue, of course, in the context of migration, but essentially in the context of the tragedy that is taking place throughout syria and in particular in aleppo. secondly, it is strange that, especially after the british prime minister's announcement - and particularly after her speech - europe is not present in this council on the issue of brexit, not to advance negotiations, but to make it very clear to the prime minister that after the speech she gave and the guidelines she gave, europe will have to be totally united with complete intransigence on those principles and values of the european union, namely on the free movement of persons and on the four freedoms which are part of the internal market, the single market. finally, i think it is also very important to send a strong signal to russia because of its involvement in syria, and the strong signal that must be given must be a signal that shows that here in this parliament the far left and, in particular, the far right are on russia's side and are therefore complicit in the tragedy that is taking place in syria.
mr president, i would like the next european council to abandon the anti-european, intergovernmental drift of bratislava and start by reacting to the financial earthquake threatened by deutsche bank and the latest news on brexit: it is one thing for the united kingdom to want to plunge into the abyss, but it is another for us to let it drag the european union down. i wanted him to dismantle the anti-european 'fortress europe' by opening legal and safe pathways of access to refugees and migrants, without condemning them to surrender to criminal hands and death in the mediterranean, to stop replicating immoral and ineffective agreements with repressive governments like the turkish one, to stop the proliferation of walls, laws and referendums à la orbán, which in fact feed the business of traffickers, threatening our own security. the europe of defence has long been in force, but it will not go far without strategy and political determination, and it has failed to send a message of dissuasion to russia that from the continued aggression in ukraine to the ruthless bombing of aleppo it cannot go unpunished. i wanted the european union to support the un high commissioner for human rights in a show of courage and resilience of european sanity, demanding restrictions on the p5 veto in the security council in the face of evidence of war crimes and crimes against humanity that are destroying what is left of syria and the credibility of the european union today.
in portugal, 106 years have passed since the establishment of the republic. a day that, in democracy, was marked as a holiday until the troika (eu-imf) and its henchmen in portugal stole it from the portuguese. the struggle of the portuguese workers and people brought about the defeat of the psd-cds government a year ago. it opened up the possibility of stopping the path of exploitation and impoverishment that had been imposed on the country. some steps have since been taken in this direction. limited and modest, but important. one of them was the return of stolen holidays. including the october 5th return. today was a holiday in portugal. we do not expect the next european council to take decisions that will change the course the eu has been following. a course which follows from its nature and objectives. the process of threats and blackmail against portugal is an expression of this nature and these objectives. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome and has been a party to the treaty of rome. it is a process of integration which has been exhausted, corroded by contradictions, and which has nothing positive to offer the peoples of europe. a process that is past. the future lies in the struggle of the workers and the peoples. after the holidays, more conquests will come.
in writing. this structured dialogue is an integral part of an unspeakable process of blackmail and conditioning designed to prevent any deviation of national governments from the neoliberal agenda of the european union. we are naturally against the suspension of the structural funds and we follow a lot of what was said today in this meeting. but this dialogue, this possibility of suspending the structural funds, the sanctions and the fines did not fall from the sky. they are the application of concrete rules which have been adopted by this parliament and by many members who are now faced with the consequences of directives and regulations adopted earlier. they are therefore an integral part of an economic and monetary union which, with its rules and its mechanisms, represents a real obstacle to the development of the economically weaker countries and regions. in this sense, rather than recommending that the suspension of the structural funds should not be applied, we must demand a thorough reflection on the euro, on economic and monetary union and, ultimately, on this process of neoliberal integration which has ceased to be part of the solution and has become part of the problem.
‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the dzhambazki report in this respect and congratulate the state of peru on its accession to the convention.
‒ the convention in question establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of peru to the convention deserves my praise and approval.
‒ the report agrees with a council decision authorising peru's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. its purpose is to ensure the return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. child abduction sometimes occurs when a couple separates, with the parents from different states. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the importance of the system ensuring the immediate return of abducted children is underlined. we voted in favour of the agreement, since its justified purpose is to protect the interests of minors.
‒ the objective of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hereinafter referred to as the '1980 convention'), which has so far been ratified by 93 countries, including all eu member states, is to restore the status quo by the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or retained through a system of cooperation between central authorities designated by the contracting parties. in 2015, peru informed the commission of its interest in the entry into force of the convention also for austria and romania, which should therefore be authorised by the european union to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 convention. the acceptance of austria and romania will make the 1980 convention applicable between peru and all eu member states except denmark. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a vitally important instrument and has been ratified by all eu member states. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states with the aim of finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. with the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise the two member states which have not yet accepted peru's accession, namely austria and romania, to do so. the convention will thus enter into force between peru and the whole of the european union. i support the adoption of this proposal in order to ensure the protection of the minors concerned throughout the european union.
‒ this convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction, seeking to ensure the immediate return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any state. the situation of child abduction occurs very frequently when a couple separates and when the parents are from different states. the convention thus aims to ensure that the rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected and to mitigate nationalist responses from the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of their respective countries to both declare that they have jurisdiction and for courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, decisions based on reasons that do not necessarily respond to the best interests of the child. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. peru has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, since this agreement is designed to respond better to the protection of the best interests of minors.
‒ i support this report on peru's accession to the hague convention, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it. in divorce situations where the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to take advantage of the lack of international cooperation to obtain custody of the children. custody is often granted to the parent who is a national of the state in which the courts are seated, and there are thus nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each state. by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence, the convention allows for cooperation between the parties, as it tends to settle such disputes at international level. it should be noted that the commission, together with experts in the field of social justice, assessed and approved the functioning of the judicial system of peru and its willingness to cooperate. for all these reasons, i vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, as the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states and which establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. in the case of children whose parents are divorced, each from a different state, it is common for the courts of the two countries concerned to declare themselves competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of peru to the convention should therefore be welcomed, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it.
‒ following the accession of peru to the hague convention, a council decision is needed to authorise the two member states (austria and romania) which have not yet accepted accession to do so. this will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union (eu), the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is a procedure which falls within the exclusive external competence of the eu (according to an opinion of the court of justice on the declaration of acceptance of accession to this convention), and is intended to ensure the full protection of minors in the european territory in the event of international child abduction. unfortunately, these situations are recurrent, especially when parents of different nationalities divorce. it is customary for each legal system to choose to declare the state of origin of each parent as competent, and the convention therefore plays a key role in resolving these transnational conflicts, providing for the jurisdiction of the court according to the place of residence of the child and a system that ensures the immediate return of abducted children. as austria and romania have not yet accepted the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision (after consultation of the european parliament) is required for the convention to enter into force between peru and the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal for a council decision on the authorization of the accession of this country, there is another, as we all know, to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention gives priority to international cooperation, for example in a divorce case where a parent of different nationalities flees with his or her child to another country. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in this case, the accession of peru is recommended to the other member states, since ireland, the czech republic and lithuania have already endorsed such accession. denmark is excluded from this cooperation. we support it.
‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the dzhambazki report in this respect and congratulate the state of kazakhstan on its accession to the convention.
‒ the convention in question establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention deserves my praise and approval.
‒ the report agrees with a council decision authorising kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. its purpose is to ensure the return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. child abduction sometimes occurs when a couple separates, with the parents from different states. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the importance of the system ensuring the immediate return of abducted children is underlined. we voted in favour of the agreement, since its justified purpose is to protect the interests of minors.
‒ the objective of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hereinafter referred to as the '1980 convention'), which has so far been ratified by 93 countries, including all eu member states, is to restore the status quo by the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or retained through a system of cooperation between central authorities designated by the contracting parties. the objective of this decision is to bring the 1980 convention into force between kazakhstan and the member states of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a vitally important instrument and has been ratified by all eu member states. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states with the aim of finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. with the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise the member states to have accepted this accession (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the scope of the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which have already accepted the accession of kazakhstan). the convention will thus enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. i support the adoption of this proposal in order to ensure the protection of the minors concerned throughout the european union.
‒ this convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction, seeking to ensure the immediate return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any state. child abduction often occurs when a couple separates and the parents are from different states. the convention thus aims to ensure that the rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected and to mitigate nationalist responses from the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of their respective countries to both declare that they have jurisdiction and for courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, decisions based on reasons that do not necessarily respond to the best interests of the child. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. kazakhstan has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of it, as this agreement is designed to respond better to the protection of the best interests of minors.
‒ i support this report on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it. in divorce situations where the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to take advantage of the lack of international cooperation to obtain custody of the children. custody is often granted to the parent who is a national of the state in which the courts are seated, and there are thus nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each state. by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence, the convention allows for cooperation between the parties, as it tends to settle such disputes at international level. it should be noted that the commission, together with experts in the field of social justice, assessed and approved the functioning of the judicial system of kazakhstan and its willingness to cooperate. for all these reasons, i vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, as the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states and which establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. in the case of children whose parents are divorced, each from a different state, it is common for the courts of the two countries concerned to declare themselves competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention should therefore be welcomed, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it.
‒ following kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention, a council decision is needed to authorise the two member states (austria and romania) that have not yet accepted accession to do so. this will allow the convention to enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union.
‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction plays a key role in resolving conflicts of jurisdiction in civil justice, particularly in the area of child protection, by establishing the jurisdiction of the court of the child's state of residence as the competent court for the resolution of disputes between parents. in view of the european legislative framework, this is a procedure falling within the exclusive external competence of the european union and the european parliament must be consulted before the council authorises the member states to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention. i would remind you that this country has made efforts to reform its judicial system and it is logical, appropriate and desirable that the convention be applied as quickly as possible between the two parties in order to ensure enhanced protection for the minors covered by it throughout the european territory and in kazakhstan.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the council's decision on the accession of that country is adopted. this convention gives priority to international cooperation, for example in a divorce case where a parent of different nationalities flees with his or her child to another country. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in this case, the accession of kazakhstan is recommended to the other member states, since ireland, the czech republic and lithuania have already endorsed such accession. denmark is excluded from this cooperation. we support it.
‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a fundamental instrument in the context of judicial cooperation between contracting states in resolving cases of international child abduction. the convention aims to harmonize the different legal systems of the states which normally both declare themselves competent to adjudicate the action and declare the custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, by adopting the criterion of the state of residence of the child. since this matter is currently the exclusive external competence of the union, a council decision calling for the acceptance by member states of the accession of third countries to the hague convention is necessary. i support the dzhambazki report in this respect and congratulate the republic of korea on its accession to the convention.
‒ the convention in question establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this type of situation occurs very often when a couple separates. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of the republic of korea to the convention deserves my praise and approval.
the report agrees with a council decision authorising the accession of the republic of korea (south) to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between states to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. its purpose is to ensure the return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any contracting state and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected in other contracting states. child abduction sometimes occurs when a couple separates, with the parents from different states. it is common for the courts of the respective countries to declare that they both have jurisdiction and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the importance of the system ensuring the immediate return of abducted children is underlined. we voted in favour of the agreement, since its justified purpose is to protect the interests of minors.
‒ the objective of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hereinafter referred to as the '1980 convention'), which has so far been ratified by 93 countries, including all eu member states, is to restore the status quo by the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or retained through a system of cooperation between central authorities designated by the contracting parties. the objective of this decision is to bring the 1980 convention into force between the republic of korea and the member states of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a vitally important instrument and has been ratified by all eu member states. this convention establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states with the aim of finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. with the accession of south korea to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise the member states to have accepted this accession (with the exception of denmark, which is excluded from the scope of the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea). the convention will thus enter into force between the republic of korea and the whole of the european union. i support the adoption of this proposal in order to ensure the protection of the minors concerned throughout the european union.
‒ this convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction, seeking to ensure the immediate return of children unlawfully transferred to or wrongfully retained in any state. child abduction often occurs when a couple separates and the parents are from different states. the convention thus aims to ensure that the rights of custody and access existing in a contracting state are effectively respected and to mitigate nationalist responses from the legal systems of each state. it is common for the courts of their respective countries to both declare that they have jurisdiction and for courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent, decisions based on reasons that do not necessarily respond to the best interests of the child. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the republic of korea has deposited its instrument of accession and we have voted in favour of this agreement, which is designed to respond in the best possible way to the protection of the best interests of minors.
‒ i support this report on the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it. in divorce situations where the parents are from different states, there is a temptation to take advantage of the lack of international cooperation to obtain custody of the children. custody is often granted to the parent who is a national of the state in which the courts are seated, and there are thus nationalist tendencies in the legal systems of each state. by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence, the convention allows for cooperation between the parties, as it tends to settle such disputes at international level. it should be noted that the commission, together with experts in the field of social justice, assessed and approved the functioning of the judicial system of the republic of korea and its willingness to cooperate. for all these reasons, i vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, as the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states and which establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states aimed at finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. in the case of children whose parents are divorced, each from a different state, it is common for the courts of the two countries concerned to declare themselves competent and for the courts to grant custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state they represent. there are quite frequent cases of international child abductions reported in the press that occur as a result of separations and divorces. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. it also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the accession of the republic of korea to the convention should therefore be welcomed, as the hague convention system becomes more effective if more countries join it.
‒ following the accession of south korea to the hague convention, a council decision is needed to authorise the two member states (austria and romania) which have not yet accepted accession to do so. this will allow the convention to enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union.
‒ as in the reports on kazakhstan and peru on the same convention, i also voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union (eu) and with a view to its entry into force for the whole of the eu, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is a highly administrative procedure, since it involves a council decision authorising the member states to accept the accession of this country to the convention, so that it can be applied fully and effectively throughout the territory of the european union, guaranteeing stronger protection for minors who are, unfortunately, increasingly the targets of international abductions. this accession of south korea to the convention is all the more important given the korean community residing in europe, which may be covered by the rules laid down in it, which is why i considered it logical, appropriate and relevant to vote in favour of its approval, as mentioned earlier.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal for a council decision on the authorisation of the republic of korea (south) to accede to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention gives priority to international cooperation, for example in a divorce case where a parent of different nationalities flees with his or her child to another country. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that cases are heard by the competent courts and in accordance with the applicable law of the child's state of residence. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in this case, the accession of the republic of south korea is recommended to the other member states, since ireland, the czech republic and lithuania have already endorsed such accession. denmark is excluded from this cooperation. we support it.
‒ the european union must play a leading role in the global commitment to eradicate hunger and malnutrition in the world. this design, enshrined in sustainable development goal 2 (eradicating hunger by 2030), is urgent when we consider demographic changes such as the increase in the world population (which is expected to reach 8.5 billion people by 2030) and its displacement to urban centres (70% of people are expected to live in large cities by 2050). i am concerned that 795 million people do not have enough to eat, that one in three suffer from some form of malnutrition and, in particular, that 161 million children are undernourished and that 2,000 children under the age of five die every year from water-related diseases. i therefore believe that the eu must fight food waste, defend the 'right to breastfeed', promote sustainable productive agriculture at all levels (large and small producers), integrate the objective of eliminating malnutrition into internal policies (agriculture, energy or trade) and external policies (trade agreements or development aid) and define specific indicators for the implementation of the eu action plan in this area. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
‒ the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 842 million people worldwide, or 12% of the world's population, go hungry and all food systems need to be adapted to eliminate food loss or waste. the sustainable development goals and their associated targets aim to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, including by ensuring opportunities to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers and by creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems capable of feeding a world population expected to reach 8,5 billion by 2030. i agree that the eu should deliver on its commitment to invest €3.5 billion to reduce growth delays by at least €7 million by 2025.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses recurring themes: global food security, hunger and malnutrition. we know how often the petty intentions which seem to justify resolutions of this kind only serve to open more doors to the advancement of the multinational agribusiness companies. this is not the case with this resolution, which contains positive aspects which should be emphasized, especially since some of them are unusual. the amendments we tabled contributed to this, although not all of them were accepted. proposals focused on:- criticism and condemnation of free trade agreements, particularly their impact on nutrition and food security in the world and their contribution to inequalities;- defence of control and public ownership of seeds and the guarantee of affordable prices for these and other factors of production;- the incompatibility between the private logic of profit maximisation, in particular of the large multinationals in the agri-food sector, and the fight against hunger and food security;- condemnation of the support and practice of export-oriented agricultural policies, favourable to large farmers;- repudiation of the expropriation of land by 'foreign investors' in the least developed countries. we appreciate that some of these points are included in the resolution.
‒ access to food and food security for all are essential to reducing inequalities. large investments are needed to achieve these objectives. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the sustainable development goals 2 aim to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, including by ensuring opportunities to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers and creating sustainable agriculture and food systems that are resilient to climate change. i believe that the eu should take political leadership in this area and promote internationally agreed nutrition objectives on a global scale. i am in favour of reinvestment in local food production, focusing mainly on small food producers and agro-ecological practices, as i believe this is a key condition for the success of nutrition strategies. it is vital to promote nutrition education programmes in schools and in local communities, to defend the 'right to breastfeeding' worldwide and to strengthen information campaigns on maternal and child health.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses recurring themes: global food security, hunger and malnutrition. we know how often the petty intentions which seem to justify resolutions of this kind only serve to open more doors to the advancement of the multinational agribusiness companies. this is not the case with this resolution, which contains positive aspects which should be emphasized, especially since some of them are unusual. the amendments we tabled contributed to this, although not all of them were accepted. proposals focused on:- criticism and condemnation of free trade agreements, particularly their impact on nutrition and food security in the world and their contribution to inequalities;- defence of control and public ownership of seeds and the guarantee of affordable prices for these and other factors of production;- the incompatibility between the private logic of profit maximisation, in particular of the large multinationals in the agri-food sector, and the fight against hunger and food security;- condemnation of the support and practice of export-oriented agricultural policies, favourable to large farmers;- repudiation of the expropriation of land by 'foreign investors' in the least developed countries. we appreciate that some of these points are included in the resolution.
‒ the eradication of hunger and malnutrition is a longstanding commitment of the european union, with the intention of eradicating this scourge by 2030. it is worrying that today, in 2016, 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a dignified and active life; it is truly shameful that one in three people in the world suffers from malnutrition and that according to unicef, 2,000 children die every day from water-related diseases. this report reiterates the importance of truly coordinated and accelerated action by diverse actors at global, national and local levels to deliver on the 2030 agenda and achieve the sustainable development goals on the eradication of hunger. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to coordinate their policies on trade, agriculture and energy, among other issues, with a view to achieving the objectives mentioned above. i am in favour of sustainable agricultural production and the fight against food waste. in this regard, reform and adaptation of food systems is urgently needed with a view to eliminating food loss or waste. so, as this report goes to the heart of the matter, my vote can only be in favour.
‒ i voted no, although i believe that the human right to food can only be fully exercised when poverty and inequality are drastically reduced, equality is ensured and resilience to shocks is strengthened, including by creating rights-based social safety nets and ensuring the full participation of vulnerable groups and safe access to and control over land, and the management of resources and other productive goods, to small farmers and farming communities. i cannot, however, agree with the attempt to find in agricultural activity all the negative environmental aspects in an absurd way.
‒ one of the sustainable development goals aims to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030 by creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems capable of feeding a world population expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholder farmers. progress has been made in reducing malnutrition, but it remains too slow and uneven. 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a dignified and active life. one third of the food produced in the world - about 1.3 billion tons - is wasted. most of the waste occurs in north america and oceania, where about 300 kilograms of food per person is wasted. the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 842 million people worldwide, or 12% of the world's population, go hungry. coordinated and accelerated action is needed by governmental, non-governmental and private actors at global, national and local levels, including scientific and industrial research. long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be mobilised immediately.
‒ ending hunger and combating malnutrition is a long-term commitment of the european union (eu), which aims to be a global leader in promoting and implementing the sustainable development goals (sdgs) of the 2030 agenda. in 2010, the eu adopted a policy framework on food security, which identified sustainable food and agriculture as key priorities, and also aimed to provide support to developing countries facing major food security challenges. this framework was followed in 2015 by a food action plan outlining how to achieve the commitments to reduce dwarfism in children under five years of age by at least 10% by 2025, and setting out the strategic objectives of development cooperation policy in this regard. yet, despite progress over the past few years, there are still 795 million people around the globe who lack access to adequate food. these issues call for rapid, effective and proactive action, because we are dealing with a basic condition inherent in human life itself, and i hope that this report will help to resolve this sad fate.
‒ the question and resolution follow a number of objectives set and commitments made at international level, and therefore fall within a context in which work is needed to achieve the second sustainable development goal zero hunger and sustainable agriculture by 2030. the resolution, while containing positive aspects, omits key issues such as the issue of food sovereignty and respect for national decisions in terms of development policies, which contrasts with the endorsement of the role of the private sector in improving food security and strengthening specific interventions in the field of nutrition.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security in the world, as i agree with the urgency of achieving the sustainable development goals and their associated targets, such as the eradication of hunger and malnutrition by 2030. i would stress the call in this resolution to the european institutions and the international community to mobilise immediate long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security. i also stress the need to tackle the systemic problems that are at the root of poor nutrition, especially when one third of the food produced in the world is wasted (about 1.3 billion tonnes). to this end, the eu should work with its international partners, including through its network of delegations around the world, to support the setting and implementation of nutrition objectives to reduce stunting and malnutrition.
in writing. the process of establishing a european public prosecutor's office started with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which only allows parliament to give its consent. the commission's most recent proposal dates from 2013. more than three years later, doubts about the establishment of the office of the prosecutor, as well as its contours, remain. parliament has repeatedly called for a change in this status quo. parliament made clear early on what it was not abandoning: that the office should take account of the so-called 'pif directive' on crimes against the interests of the union; that it should coordinate its action with eurojust, which should be independent, respect national constitutions and the highest international standards. in this last parameter, the office can draw inspiration from the portuguese model, whose institutional architecture is considered to be one of the best in the world. in short, a set of clear guidelines, to which the council has not yet been able to respond. i therefore support this resolution which asks the council for clarification, calls for the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and rightly points out that the cost of not having a european public prosecutor's office is increasing every year.
‒ the eu collected €159.5 billion in value added tax (vat) revenues in 2014, but it is important that the eu and all its member states detect and punish fraud affecting the eu's financial interests in an effective and dissuasive manner in order to protect the taxpayers of all member states who contribute to the union budget. i consider it essential that a clear and unambiguous set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office be established, based on the proposal for a directive on combating fraud to the detriment of financial interests through criminal law, and that efforts be intensified to reach an agreement on the pif directive so that vat is included in its scope.
‒ this resolution addresses a controversial issue. the european parliament has long been concerned about the need to make a leap forward in the area of the federalisation of justice, which would involve, among other things, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. the resolution calls on the council to establish 'a set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office' and to 're-open negotiations with the european parliament with a view to its establishment'. it defends the 'importance of the role of eurojust in improving judicial cooperation and coordination between the competent judicial authorities of the member states'. it states that 'in order to ensure effective cooperation and exchange of information between the eppo and eurojust, the two bodies should operate on the same premises'. we are facing another attempt to make progress in areas which go to the heart of state sovereignty, in this case justice. the vision expressed here is to centralise, structure and strengthen bodies such as eurojust, which escape democratic and judicial control, going beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the free and sovereign cooperation between the national states is thus being overtaken by the creation of supranational control mechanisms, which are inseparable from a security drift that increasingly puts fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk.
‒ it has always been parliament's ambition to create an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ according to the study and reports on the vat gap in the eu-28 member states: 2016 final report, €159.5 billion in value added tax (vat) revenues were lost in the eu in 2014. i support the importance of the eu and its member states to detect and sanction, in an effective and dissuasive manner, cases of fraud affecting the eu's financial interests, with the aim of protecting the taxpayers of the member states who contribute to the union budget. i support the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the fragmentation of national enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. i think it is essential to present a cost-benefit analysis with estimates of the budgetary implications of the collegial structure of the european public prosecutor's office.
‒ on the pretext of a question on the functioning and coordination of these two institutions, a report is being prepared which calls for the strengthening of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office and for closer relations between it and bodies such as eurojust or olaf. the attack on the sovereignty of the states continues, reinforcing the federalist stance of the integration project through supranational bodies in which more and more competences and powers are concentrated, obliterating the necessary and desirable free and sovereign cooperation between the national states. the creation of some of these bodies and the strengthening of others, these 'european' bodies, are intended to protect and supersede the legitimate institutions of the member states of the european union. these proposals centralize, structure and strengthen bodies such as eurojust, which escape democratic and judicial control, going beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. we voted against it.
‒ in accordance with article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council may establish a european public prosecutor's office after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. this motion for a resolution is in line with this, by proposing the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office with a clear and unambiguous set of powers and procedures to combat economic crime, tax fraud and tax evasion. the proposal therefore calls on the council to abandon the rule which deprives the public prosecutor's office of the possibility of intervening in certain cases where pif infringements are committed. the proposal calls for a clear distinction between the competences of the court of justice and those of the national courts, avoiding conflicts of jurisdiction, which is a negative effect of the so-called 'national link'. at the same time, the document focuses on the protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the subjects of proceedings investigated by the office of the prosecutor, as well as on the delimitation of the spheres of competence of the office of the prosecutor and eurojust. i think it is important that the union and its member states detect and punish fraud against financial interests in an effective and dissuasive way - because, as margaret thatcher rightly said, there is no such thing as public money; there is only taxpayers' money. i therefore support the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office as proposed in the report.
‒ the council, by means of regulations adopted in accordance with a special legislative procedure, may establish a european public prosecutor's office after obtaining the consent of the european parliament, in order to reduce the current fragmentation of the efforts deployed. parliament called on the council to establish a clear and unambiguous set of powers and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, so that vat would be included in its scope, and to resume negotiations with the european public prosecutor's office with a view to establishing the european public prosecutor's office. it also considered that the eppo should have sufficient investigative means to carry out its investigations and that operational decisions should be subject to judicial review by a competent national court so that they do not affect third parties. it points out that it is necessary to avoid any negative effects of the so-called 'national link' and considers it essential to ensure the protection of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step forward. i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ according to the document study and reports on the vat differential in the 28 eu member states: final report 2016, the eu lost €159.5 billion in vat revenues in 2014. it is important that the eu and all its member states detect and sanction fraud affecting the eu's financial interests in an effective and dissuasive manner in order to protect the taxpayers of all member states who contribute to the union budget. this proposal relates to the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of enforcement efforts at national level to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the eppo should have sufficient investigative means to carry out its investigations and, in order to ensure the effective cooperation and exchange of information between the eppo and eurojust, the two bodies should operate on the same premises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in the fight against financial fraud in the european union (eu), as provided for in article 86 tfeu. the eu cannot take legal action against criminal activities that damage its budget. in fact, a recent study shows that in 2014 some €160 million in value added tax revenues were lost in the eu, which is all the more reason to urgently consider swift and rigorous regulation that effectively allows, combats and dissuades cases of fraud that harm the eu's financial interests. the role of eurojust in this area is crucial as it provides a link and coordination between the various eu legal systems and national authorities competent in matters of investigation and prosecution, facilitating the execution of requests for cooperation, the application of mutual recognition instruments and the improvement of cross-border prosecution. i agree with the suggestions made, in particular, as regards the legitimacy of the council for the establishment of the framework of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, with respect for the protection and guarantee of the procedural rights of persons subject to legal proceedings.
‒ this report seeks to establish a set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office by the council and to resume negotiations with the european parliament with a view to its establishment. they say that 'eurojust has an important role to play in improving judicial cooperation and coordination between the competent judicial authorities of the member states'. they also stated that 'in order to ensure effective cooperation and exchange of information between the eppo and eurojust, the two bodies should operate on the same premises'. this is yet another attack on the sovereignty of states and democracy. the creation of some of these bodies and the strengthening of others, these 'european' bodies, are intended to protect and create mechanisms of repression against the legitimate institutions of the member states of the european union. these proposals centralize, structure and strengthen bodies such as eurojust, which escape democratic and judicial control, going beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks. the free and sovereign cooperation between the national states is thus being overtaken by the creation of supranational control mechanisms, initiatives which are part of a security drift which increasingly puts fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees at risk. we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust because i agree with the need to create an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national efforts. i would stress the call on the council to establish a clear and unambiguous set of competences and procedures for this new european public prosecutor's office and to resume negotiations with parliament with a view to its establishment. i therefore believe that the european public prosecutor's office should have sufficient investigative means to carry out its investigations. i would like to recall the role of eurojust in judicial cooperation and coordination between the competent judicial authorities of the member states, as well as in supporting investigations involving third countries. i therefore support the proposal to have both bodies functioning on the same site.
‒ caterpillar recently announced a major worldwide restructuring plan which led to the closure of the gosselies plant, leading to the layoff of 2,500 direct workers and putting the jobs of some 4,000 subcontractors at risk. the board of directors of alstom also announced the transfer of its train manufacturing activity (400 jobs) from the belfort site to reichshoffen. this central and strategic industry for the eu faces very strong global competition from countries exporting low-cost products to the european market. european industry must therefore be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability. only a strong and resilient industry and a forward-looking policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs. the commission shall develop with the member states a union strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy for the reindustrialisation of europe, based, inter alia, on digitalisation, sustainability, energy efficiency and adequate resources. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
‒ caterpillar announced a major restructuring plan worldwide which led to the dismissal of 2 500 direct employees and threatened the jobs of some 4 000 subcontractors. the board of directors of alstom has announced that the transfer of its train manufacturing activity (400 jobs) from the belfort site to the reichshoffen site means, in effect, the closure of the former. i express my deep solidarity and support for all caterpillar and alstom workers and their families and i support measures to support these workers and the local economies and to help the regions overcome this difficult economic and social situation.
in writing. ‒ we stand in solidarity with the struggle of the workers of caterpillar and alstom, as well as with the struggle of all workers facing unemployment and precariousness. we are calling for all measures to be taken to enable them to return to their jobs as soon as possible, in conditions of job security, with decent wages, with rights and opportunities for professional and personal development. for these fundamental reasons, we reject this resolution. with unconcealed cynicism, this resolution begins by deploring the situation of workers in these companies. but it does not for a moment call into question the policies which are at the root of the so-called deindustrialization, and which allow multinational companies to relocate in succession, always in search of better conditions for the exploitation of workers, leaving behind a trail of misery and destruction. on the contrary, the resolution endorses and reaffirms these policies. the aim of the european industrial policy is to gain scale at european level by means of restructuring measures which strengthen the economic groups of the major powers (even if they destroy peripheral industry) in order to be able to compete better at international level. it is to promote monopoly concentration on a european scale, giving european big capital a leg up in inter-imperialist competition. to these gentlemen, the workers are cannon fodder. that's too bad.
‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases demonstrate that european industry must be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability. only a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs. the commission and the member states must better anticipate these socioeconomic situations and ensure the competitiveness of our industrial network. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ european industry must be oriented so that it can be considered as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability. the new challenges in the eu, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs, can only be successfully addressed with a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy. i am in favour of creating a genuine industrial policy for the union, which also protects eu workers (suitable social protection, working conditions and wages that allow them to live with dignity, among others), and which can achieve a sustainable economy and inclusive growth. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to direct investment towards creativity, skills, innovation and sustainable technologies and to promote the modernisation of europe's industrial base through a value chain policy that includes the core industries and their regional and local actors. reindustrialisation will bring enormous benefits to european industry and the economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ we stand in solidarity with the struggle of the workers of caterpillar and alstom, as well as with the struggle of all workers facing unemployment and precariousness. we are calling for all measures to be taken to enable them to return to their jobs as soon as possible, in conditions of job security, with decent wages, with rights and opportunities for professional and personal development. for these fundamental reasons, we reject this resolution. with unconcealed cynicism, this resolution begins by deploring the situation of workers in these companies. but it does not for a moment call into question the policies which are at the root of the so-called deindustrialization, and which allow multinational companies to relocate in succession, always in search of better conditions for the exploitation of workers, leaving behind a trail of misery and destruction. on the contrary, the resolution endorses and reaffirms these policies. the aim of the european industrial policy is to gain scale at european level by means of restructuring measures which strengthen the economic groups of the major powers (even if they destroy peripheral industry) in order to be able to compete better at international level. it is to promote monopoly concentration on a european scale, giving european big capital a leg up in inter-imperialist competition. to these gentlemen, the workers are cannon fodder. that's too bad.
‒ european industry has a high added value and recognised high quality standards. the commission has also taken the view that the community's economic policy should be guided by the principle of subsidiarity. the strong competition between the union and the states exporting low-cost products to the european market has been threatening the industrial sector. for this reason, two factories of alstom and caterpillar, respectively, have recently cut about 3000 jobs in europe. the european social market economy should aim at sustainability and inclusive growth objectives, given the importance of the secondary sector. in this respect, the creation of a long-term european industrial strategy in order to achieve the target of 20% of gdp coming from the secondary sector - a target enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy - is indeed key. the commission should develop, with the member states, a strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy, favouring high quality, innovative and energy-efficient production, applying sustainable production processes, thus enabling the union to survive in an increasingly competitive world context. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, because coherence between the various policies of the european union is imperative in order to define a genuine industrial policy, particularly in the light of the caterpillar and alstom cases. european industry, like alstom and caterpillar, has high added value and recognised competence and is central and strategic to the eu, which faces very strong global competition from countries exporting low-cost products to the european market, pursuing a policy of rapid and aggressive expansion across all continents, often with the political and financial support of their governments. european industry must be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability. only a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs. it is up to the commission and the member states to anticipate these socioeconomic situations and to ensure the competitiveness of our industrial network.
‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution which draws attention to the need for the european union (eu) to establish a more effective industrial policy in the wake of the recent restructuring cases of caterpillar and alstom, which led to the dismissal of thousands of people and which represent another chapter in the complex and asymmetrical phenomenon of european deindustrialisation. the rail industry is a key sector of european industrialisation, lacking the robustness, technology and innovation to adapt to modern times and simultaneously meet the european union's climate and energy targets. in this respect, it is a sector which, having recognised its added value and strategic importance in europe, needs to face strong global competition from other countries exporting low-cost products. the resolution therefore calls not only for measures to support the workers made redundant by these two companies but also for the need to implement a genuine long-term, resilient and future-oriented strategic policy for european reindustrialisation, capable of overcoming the challenges of competition, creating quality jobs and fostering competitiveness in a sustainable way, as enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ the workers of caterpillar and alstrom and their struggle must deserve our full solidarity and the mobilization of all measures so that they can get back to their jobs as soon as possible and can do so on the basis of rights that guarantee them job security with decent wages and opportunities for professional and personal development. the reference to a european industrial policy, or to a strategy and objectives of a european industry, the alignment with the europe 2020 strategy, the search for cosmetic solutions to promote employment, such as the deification of corporate social responsibility, are precisely at the basis of the deindustrialization that this eu now cynically aims to oppose. we believe that reindustrialisation is necessary, but reindustrialisation based on the skills of workers and embedded in development strategies which are decided by each country and which naturally involve public control of the fundamental levers of economic growth.
in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar (in belgium) and alstom (in france), i voted in favour of the resolution on the need for a reindustrialisation policy, because i believe that a new investment strategy in europe based on sustainable growth and the fight against social dumping is needed. on the initiative of the european socialist group, this resolution is a strong political signal from the european parliament to the european commission, calling for all restructuring processes to be explained and justified to workers through a permanent social dialogue. i would remind you that europe is a social market economy which aims to achieve a sustainable economy and inclusive growth. to do this, european industry needs to maintain its competitiveness and ability to invest in europe, which will require a commitment to innovative production processes that will enable the eu to be a leader in an increasingly competitive world.
i am not going to go into the details of the situation in syria, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the situation in syria. what's happening with the syrian people, and what i see, is a group of men who seem to be playing risk, that war game that boys play on the board, each one choosing their soldiers, their pawns, but no one is talking about the essence of this debate which is the syrian people and what is happening in syria. so you're all very much amused to play your games, to play your hand and not really respond to the humanitarian crisis that is going on in syria. i must tell you that the worst example this parliament can set is exactly what we are having in this debate: it's exploiting a conflict, exploiting victims to make your war games. we don't need that! we need to stand with the syrian people. no, mr. verhofstadt, excuse me. i know you're not listening to me because you're a woman and you don't play the war games you play with your friends. but i must say, mr verhofstadt, what you have said is absolutely unacceptable. we need to support the efforts of the united nations, a political dialogue, yes, with all the actors, excluding the terrorists. and as for moderate forces, maybe we could stop indiscriminately arming the so-called "moderate forces" and stop creating terrorist groups, because al-nusra, before being a terrorist group, was also a moderate force that should be supported. so if we don't start to take the deaths seriously, if we don't start to take the humanitarian tragedy seriously, we can continue with this fantastic spectacle and i must tell you, it's not only this as a huge lack of respect, that you are so good, so good, so good, better than everyone else, that you know everything, that you have the luxury to remove the headphones when others speak, because you do not accept to listen to criticism from anyone. i'm used to it. thank you. i've learned more about you two.
mr president, the resolution omits that this is a war between a legitimate government defending its territorial integrity and armed and trained armies of the western powers. it omits that it was the united states that violated the ceasefire agreed on 26 september. everyone will remember a resolution very similar to this which was adopted in this house on libya. by that time the libyan government had ceased to serve the interests of the same western powers that created and armed the militias that destroyed a country and are now plundering it. let's cut the hypocrisy. we call for the lifting of economic and diplomatic sanctions against the syrian government. what matters is that they stop arming and training the rebels, replace weapons with dialogue and help build a political solution that will allow the war to end, allow humanitarian aid and create conditions for the reconstruction of a country that has already suffered too much from this conflict.
in writing. the images that daily reach us of men, women and children being indiscriminately massacred in aleppo confront us with more than the moral failure of the international community: with the diplomatic and political irrelevance of the eu. un high commissioner for human rights zeid ra'ad al hussein touched on the wound yesterday by calling for restrictions on the veto power of permanent members of the security council when there are serious concerns of war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide: called for the russian veto to be overruled and those responsible for the carnage in syria to be brought before the international criminal court. humanitarian aid and behind-the-scenes diplomacy are useful, but they are not enough. the eu and its member states have been unable to act strategically, decisively, thus allowing russia to exploit the vacuum and assad's terrorists, daesh and the like to massacre the syrian people, fuelling the reasons why thousands are fleeing and desperately seeking refuge in the neighborhood and in europe; and offering more lost generations to terrorist recruitment. let us be under no illusions: we will not defeat the global threat of terrorism as long as we allow the wars in syria, iraq, libya to continue. it is also european security that is at stake!
mr president, this debate on the peace process in colombia is a debate with a great impact on international politics, and i cannot therefore fail to welcome the news of the election of antónio guterres as the new secretary-general of the united nations a few minutes ago and to wish him the best of luck in his new role. the will of the people is sovereign but the pursuit of peace is a greater good. the intense debate in colombia, in the context of the referendum on the peace agreement between the farc and the government, was a dialogue on how best to build a lasting peace on the basis of the existing bilateral ceasefire. we must also remember that the only way to overcome an obstacle to peace, which has been legitimately created by the democratic listening of the people, is to have an even stronger democratic response. this is the challenge for colombia and for the parties involved. this is the challenge that the european union must take up.
mr president, the result of the referendum in colombia is also the result of a long campaign of disinformation and fear by those who have fuelled hatred, paramilitarism and state terrorism for years, who are responsible for almost seven million forcibly displaced people and hundreds of murders of progressive peace and human rights activists. the result will be nothing more than a brief delay in reaching a peace agreement for which the colombian people are longing and which will put an end to an armed conflict that has lasted for fifty years. the long and exhaustive negotiating process between the colombian government and the farc-ep must remain an important reference point in the peace process, which must proceed calmly with the maintenance of the ceasefire. the european union is called upon to remove the farc-ep from the list of terrorist organisations once and for all. peace, more than necessary, will be an absolute inevitability which the colombian people will sooner or later achieve.
in writing. the negotiations that have taken place between the colombian government and the farc in recent years have filled the world with hope. in a bold turn of events, the longtime enemies agreed to sit down at the negotiating table to try to end a conflict that has claimed eight million lives. what seemed impossible was achieved and a definitive ceasefire was celebrated in august, agreeing to the demobilization of the guerrillas and their integration into the political-party system. such an agreement would only entail mutual concessions and would always be based on a difficult compromise between the desire for justice and the desire for peace. unfortunately, a majority of colombians rejected this agreement in the referendum on october 2. a historic opportunity for peace has been lost, and this can only fill us with sadness. i believe, however, that this process is irreversible and that neither the government nor the farc want to regress to suffering and violence. this is a decisive moment for the future of the colombian people and the european union must make every effort to find a solution which, while addressing the fears and doubts expressed by the people at the ballot box, does not allow peace to escape.
madam president, i am indeed surprised at some of the positions in this debate. this law is a complete setback for women's rights and, by its very nature, for human rights. so this is a european issue. it is a repressive law that calls into question all the progress achieved in gender equality in poland. the priority should be to provide appropriate sex education and safeguard sexual reproductive rights. it's probably about making contraception more accessible. it should be about preventing unwanted pregnancy, not about limiting women's choices. banning and criminalizing abortion does not mean fewer abortions, but many more clandestine abortions. it means using hangers and needles inside women's bodies. we are talking about women who are at the mercy of infection and death and this law is a death sentence for thousands of women. it's taking power away from women in every way. the suspension of this law is a sign. but how long are we going to have this law suspended? how far will we tolerate the violation of human rights by a member state?
i would like to congratulate this house on the adoption yesterday of the amendment to the paris agreement and the efforts made by the commissioner on this matter. as has been said time and again, the european union has played a leading role in this process and it is now imperative that it remains at the forefront in defining and coordinating measures for their effective implementation, requiring transparency and ambition. and that is precisely the will we will have to demonstrate next month in marrakesh at cop 22. i believe that the global paris agreement represents a more equitable international framework for promoting the fight against climate change. the definition of a stable and ambitious legal framework is now essential to mobilise civil society and the private sector to invest in innovative technologies that will enable us to build a more sustainable society. there will now be an opportunity for growth and job creation in the green and blue economy that we cannot afford to waste. in european climate policy there are industrial sectors, some of which are subject to carbon leakage, which could be harmed if we focus all our efforts on reducing emissions on them. the commissioner, we cannot afford to forget, in this effort which must be made by all, the transport sector, the second most important sector in terms of emissions and the one whose emissions continue to grow freely. air and sea transport were excluded from the paris agreement. the icao and imo have been relieved and have made only modest progress in this area. i would like to express my deep concern, commissioner, about the agreement being prepared at icao on this matter. an agreement that will be implemented late, only after 2020, that starts from a very high co2 emission reference level and that is anticipated to be purely voluntary in nature, without imposing an effective reduction in emissions in the near future, is certainly not the agreement i would like. i also understand that the emission-neutralization measures being negotiated are not clear and their quality and control very doubtful. this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be far from meeting the paris objectives to which we have committed ourselves. i hope, commissioner, that this agreement does not set the tone and the level of ambition for the other transport sectors, in particular maritime transport, and that if it comes into being under the conditions i have mentioned, it will not be sold to us as a success.
madam president, commissioner, we are not going to be flying the flag in the chorus of festive propaganda around the paris agreement. the fragility of this agreement is manifold, and the indisputable need for a global and binding instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions does not make it worth everything. and we are not just referring to the absence of concrete targets and reduction commitments that substantiate the announced targets for limiting the rise in temperature, a relevant issue, already mentioned. in addition to the objectives, we must also take care of the means of achieving these objectives and we deplore the insistence on market mechanisms which have already shown their ineffectiveness and perversity: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is still more business intent here than genuine concern for the state of our common home. but there are alternatives. we have fought for them and we will continue to fight for them.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, this report is about the application of eu law by the member states. there are several aspects involved here that need to be addressed. we cannot speak of european union law, but rather of european union legislation. in a state governed by law, it is the courts that enforce the law and the law is only one of the sources of law. in this area, it is essential to intensify cooperation between the various bodies of the union - namely the commission, parliament and the council - on the one hand, and between these bodies and each member state on the other. the implementation of the law through the application of the laws implies the fair settlement of disputes in social life, especially those affecting the lives of individuals, businesses and other associations among themselves and between them and the eu and the member states. the rule of law is precisely the state which is limited in its concrete actions by the rules and principles of law. it is therefore urgently necessary to create reserves of jurisdiction for the european union, especially in matters relating to the single market and human rights, and to set up union courts in each of the member states. european integration will be a mirage until concrete steps are taken to unify the different laws and jurisdictions in europe. greater integration in the area of justice is therefore urgently needed, not only as a means of overcoming many of the current obstacles but also as a means of deepening european cohesion itself. without democratic reforms of the justice systems of the union and the member states, there will be no real european integration. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i'm not happy. i am very unhappy with the delays in the union courts. but these delays are infinitely less than the delays in justice in the different member states. the delays in the justice system are overcome with new judges, with truly trained judges and not with appointments of political commissioners instead of judges. to expedite justice is to hand over its administration to judges, to magistrates, not to lawyers, not to politicians who will momentarily play the role of magistrates. the problem of judicial backwardness in the union, in the courts of the union and in the courts of the member states, is one of the problems that threatens democracy itself and the very essence of the rule of law itself. it must therefore be a priority for the union, and in particular for the commission, which has powers in this area that parliament does not have.
‒ the global financial crisis has put on the g20 and eu agenda the role of international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in financial stability and growth, in particular the standards for recognising losses in the banking system. the issuance of ifrs 9 financial instruments emerged as a key response to some aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. this financial instrument moves from an impairment model based on 'losses incurred' to one based on 'estimated losses' by addressing the problem of 'too little, too late' in the process of recognising losses by granting loans. however, the european supervisory authorities, in cooperation with the commission and efrag, should define guidelines in this regard in order to avoid any abuse of management discretion.
‒ in 2014, the international accounting standards board adopted ifrs 9 as the international accounting standard for financial instruments. ifrs 9 replaces the existing ias 39. ifrs 9 represents a fundamental change in the process for measuring impairment losses for institutions and arises as a response from the international accounting standards board to the late recognition of losses in the ias 39 model of losses. ifrs 9 is based on a forward-looking approach through an expected loss model, which enables institutions to recognise losses before they occur. the change in approach requires financial institutions to model future market trends, which will require a large set of macroeconomic data that historically were not required for accounting purposes. the resolution, while containing some concerns, does not call into question the standard-setting process. in addition, the new ifrs 9 has not been fully effective in addressing the pro-cyclicality problem and may even have some negative implications, especially for smaller financial institutions (e.g. cooperative banks) that use the standard method to assess credit risk.
in writing. ‒ ifrs 9 will enter into force on 1 january 2018 and replaces ias 39. ifrs 9 is an improvement over ias 39 in that the change from an impairment model based on 'losses incurred' to one based on 'estimated losses' is an answer to the problem in the process of recognising losses on loans. this regulation will be very important to prevent future crises in the financial sector. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ ifrs 9 was issued by the international accounting standards board as a key response to some aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector. i advocate an ex post review of ifrs 9 in order to identify and assess the unintended effects of the standard, in particular on long-term investment. as well as close oversight of the application of ifrs 9 in the eu. i agree with the need to better understand the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking sector, the insurance sector and the financial markets in general, but also on the financial sector as a whole.
‒ in 2014, the international accounting standards board adopted ifrs 9 as the international accounting standard for financial instruments. ifrs 9 replaces the existing ias 39. ifrs 9 represents a fundamental change in the process for measuring impairment losses for institutions and arises as a response from the international accounting standards board to the late recognition of losses in the ias 39 model of losses. ifrs 9 is based on a forward-looking approach through an expected loss model, which enables institutions to recognise losses before they occur. the change in approach requires financial institutions to model future market trends, which will require a large set of macroeconomic data that historically were not required for accounting purposes. the resolution, while containing some concerns, does not call into question the standard-setting process. in addition, the new ifrs 9 has not been fully effective in addressing the pro-cyclicality problem and may even have some negative implications, especially for smaller financial institutions (e.g. cooperative banks) that use the standard method to assess credit risk.
‒ the global financial crisis has put on the g20 and eu agenda the role of international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in financial stability and growth, in particular the standards for recognising losses in the banking system. i voted in favour, as i considered that ifrs 9 is an improvement on ias 39 in that the move from an impairment model based on 'losses incurred' to one based on 'estimated losses' is a response to the 'too little, too late' problem in the process of recognising losses on loans. however, ifrs 9 requires a considerable level of discernment in the accounting process and there are considerable differences of opinion and little concrete guidance from auditors in this regard. the european supervisory authorities should therefore, in cooperation with the commission and efrag, define guidelines in this regard in order to avoid any abuse of management discretion.
‒ international financial reporting standards have played a key role since the global financial crisis as a guarantee of financial stability and growth, especially when it comes to standards for recognising losses in the banking system. the international accounting standards board issued ifrs 9 - financial instruments, as a key response to some aspects of the crisis and its impact on the banking sector - which will replace ias 39 as of 1 january 2018. this is an equally complex standard, but already an improvement on ias 39, adopting a model based on 'estimated losses' as opposed to 'unrealised losses' and will lack an assessment of the impact on the banking, insurance and financial markets in general in macroeconomic terms. i am in favour of the measures suggested in this motion for a resolution, which aim to identify and assess the effects and implications of the application of this ifrs 9 standard in the eu, particularly in relation to long-term investment, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
‒ in july 2014, the international accounting standards board adopted ifrs 9 as the international accounting standard for financial instruments. ifrs 9 replaces the existing ias 39. ifrs 9 represents a fundamental change in the process for measuring impairment losses for institutions and arises as a response from the international accounting standards board to the late recognition of losses in the ias 39 model for injured losses. ifrs 9 is based on a forward-looking approach through an expected loss model, which enables institutions to recognise losses before they occur. the commission notes that the commission has not yet received any information on the extent of the credit risk of the financial institutions. the resolution, while containing some concerns, does not call into question the standard-setting process. in addition, the new ifrs 9 has not been fully effective in addressing the pro-cyclicality problem and may even have some negative implications, especially for smaller financial institutions (e.g. cooperative banks) that use the standard method to assess credit risk.
‒ the civil war raging in syria and the escalation of violence in recent days, particularly in the city of aleppo, have put the country in the grip of the greatest humanitarian crisis in modern times. i strongly condemn the attacks that have been perpetrated against civilians, particularly affecting the defenseless women and children who are being deprived of food, drinking water and medical supplies, and who are being denied humanitarian aid because of the siege of the city. in the last week of september alone, 96 children were killed in bombings, according to unicef records, and half of the wounded arriving at hospitals and other treatment centers in the east of the city are children (according to save the children). it is vital that the parties allow humanitarian corridors and the recent attacks on a humanitarian aid convoy and a red crescent warehouse are to be condemned as serious violations of international humanitarian law and possible war crimes. the eu and all global political actors should make efforts to find a peaceful solution for syria and a swift cessation of hostilities. a final word of support to the aid workers on the ground and to the families of the deceased.
‒ the recent attacks constitute serious and alarming violations of international humanitarian law and possible war crimes and the eu should take a greater role in mediating a peace agreement in the country. i condemn all attacks on civilians and hospitals in syria and express my deep concern at the suffering of the people in the besieged areas of aleppo. all participants in the international syria support group should resume negotiations, facilitate a stable peace and intensify efforts towards a lasting political solution for syria.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union is now preparing to take action to help the victims of the conflict in the middle east. by decontextualising the events on the ground since the ceasefire, by omitting some of them - such as the us airstrike that for the first time violated the ceasefire - by omitting the causes of the conflict in syria, and in particular the role of the external interference of the western powers and their support for armed terrorist groups, what this resolution is intended to do is to give political and institutional cover to the entry into a new level of the process of external aggression against this sovereign country. something similar happened a few years ago when it came to preparing the aggression against libya. at that time, too, humanitarian issues came to the fore in a biased and truncated way. we are not ignoring the serious humanitarian situation on the ground. it is the subject of the resolution tabled by our group. the situation requires immediate responses, which must be linked to the end of economic and diplomatic sanctions, the end of the supply of arms and military training to terrorist groups supported by the us and the eu, and the commitment to building a political solution that will allow the war to end and bring humanitarian aid where it is needed, while creating conditions for the reconstruction of the country.
‒ the european union is one of the largest contributors of humanitarian aid to people fleeing the historic violence and destruction in syria; that the lack of international unity is jeopardising the prospects for a negotiated solution to the war in syria. the eu must continue its efforts and play a greater role in mediating a peace agreement in syria. we must deplore everything that is happening in syria and try to find a peaceful solution to this conflict. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the civil war in syria, which has been going on for more than five years, is already one of the biggest humanitarian disasters and the escalation of violence, especially in the city of aleppo, shows no signs of abating. i strongly condemn the abuse and indiscriminate attacks perpetuated on civilians and on infrastructure that allows humanitarian aid to arrive. it is crucial that humanitarian corridors be created that are respected. it is urgent to find a lasting peace solution and to reach a ceasefire as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with yet another resolution with an unacceptable character of interference. the resolution is presented as a resolution aimed solely at the humanitarian question, but it is clearly biased, treating as equal what is not equal. the ongoing investigations into the attack on the humanitarian convoy, or the us responsibility for the violation of the ceasefire by an aerial bombardment, are omitted. reference to concrete facts without context serves the interests of those who, in the name of the humanitarian cause, pursue other objectives. history shows how the call for humanitarian intervention has in various situations preceded an escalation of war, military intervention and occupation. that was the case with the resolution adopted in this parliament before the military intervention in libya. the resolution not only takes sides, but while omitting the need for a determined fight against the terrorist forces on the ground, it does not recognize the right of the syrian government to defend itself in a conflict that has lasted for more than five years and that has been promoted and financed from abroad, fulfilling the us agenda of destabilization and control of the middle east, exploiting the legitimate and just aspirations of the syrian people. causes that are omitted for obvious complicity. we obviously voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour, taking into account the current situation and the continuing escalation of hostilities in syria, especially in aleppo, which has been subjected to heavy aerial bombardment, including attacks on medical infrastructure, and considering that the situation has deteriorated rapidly and dramatically despite the efforts of the international community to bring about a cessation of hostilities. the european union must therefore continue to be one of the largest contributors to humanitarian aid to people fleeing the historic violence and destruction in syria, even though the lack of international unity is jeopardising the prospects for a negotiated solution to the war in syria.
‒ we condemn the attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of the siege and the impossibility of humanitarian aid to the needy syrian population. we condemn the recent attacks on humanitarian aid convoys near aleppo, which are a serious violation of international humanitarian law. we pay tribute to the humanitarian workers who have died in the effort for syrian citizens. we call on the parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, to immediately cease attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure and to take steps towards a total cessation of hostilities.
‒ materials and articles in contact with food are widely used in everyday life (e.g. food packaging, kitchen utensils). when placed in contact with food and depending on their composition and properties, materials behave differently, passing on parts of their constituents. however, the chemicals emitted by these objects can alter the composition of foodstuffs and endanger human health. although these products are subject to community rules (to which they are legally bound), the existing regulation sets out only the general safety requirements and also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures in accordance with the legislation of each member state. so far, only four specific measures common to the eu have been adopted for materials/objects. however, the specific measures adopted by one member state may differ from those taken into account by another, so the absence of common european measures not only impedes the internal market, but also leads to increased compliance costs (often passed on to consumers) and a loss of competitiveness and innovation/development capacity. i think that this is a very important aspect of food safety and i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
the resolution omits that this is a war between a legitimate government defending the integrity of its territory and armed and trained armies of the western powers. it omits the united states which violated the ceasefire agreed on 26 september. everyone will remember a resolution very similar to this one which was adopted in this house on libya. at that time, the libyan government had ceased to serve the interests of the same western powers that created and armed the militias that destroyed a country that is now plundering. let's not be hypocritical. we call for the lifting of economic and diplomatic sanctions against the syrian government. what matters is that they stop arming and training the rebels, replace weapons with dialogue and help build a political solution that will allow the war to end and humanitarian aid to be provided and create conditions for the reconstruction of a country that has already suffered too much from this conflict.
‒ the european union's leadership in the fight against climate change gives dignity to the union and its member states. the ratification of the paris agreement, which will allow its early entry into force, and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 are generational contributions of which we should be proud. i believe that the eu must maintain its leading role at cop22 in marrakesh, accompanying the moroccan presidency in making renewable energy a priority. i share the concern about the deepening of the market for emission allowances, and i reiterate the need to harmonize the principles of the paris agreement and even the kyoto protocol with the other international legal instruments in this field. only in this way will the 2020 and 2030 objectives be met. i share the view that conditions must be created for industrial adaptations to environmental objectives to promote employment, competitiveness and economic growth. in this respect, it is essential to coordinate environmental policy with energy policy, to promote scientific research and technological innovation and to integrate the objectives in external action, with environmental diplomacy, especially in relation to development support. i therefore support the motion for a resolution.
‒ the eu and its member states have presented their planned nationally determined contributions which commit to the binding target of at least a 40% domestic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. efforts to mitigate global warming should not be seen as an obstacle to the fight for economic growth, but should rather be seen as a driving force for the creation of new sustainable jobs and the achievement of sustainable economic growth. the eu must drastically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions beyond current commitments in order to avoid as far as possible large-scale negative emissions, as technologies have not yet been proven to be successful, socially acceptable, cost-effective and safe.
‒ this resolution addresses the preparation of the 22nd un conference of the parties on climate change, to be held later this year in marrakech. the conference will inevitably be held under the auspices of the paris conference and the agreement reached there. this resolution also reflects that. we are not following the laudatory tone with regard to the paris agreement. there are several problems with this agreement. in addition to the lack of agreed limits on ghg emissions, the agreement maintains and legitimises a market approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument. the agreement abandoned the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialized countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries. the agreement also includes a dimension of financing projects by large transnational groups in developing countries, enhancing the imperialist domination of the resources of these countries. these are views and options which are also expressed and defended in this resolution, and to which we are obviously opposed and which we counter with an alternative view, based on a normative approach and a common but necessarily differentiated responsibility.
‒ following the eu's ratification of the paris agreement, the ep should use its influence at international level and its membership of international parliamentary networks to push forward firmly and swiftly the ratification and implementation of the paris agreement by all stakeholders. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ climate change is ongoing and human action has been the main cause of the global warming recorded since the mid-20th century. in this regard, the widespread and substantial impacts of climate change, already evident, on natural and human systems on all continents and oceans are of concern. the paris agreement on climate change was a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and the commitment to reduce global emissions to net zero emissions during the second half of the century is welcome. the eu must be diligent in putting pressure on those parties who are not yet in line with the paris agreement. i support the need for additional efforts to ensure that financial resources are mobilised to combat climate change in order to reach the target of usd 100 billion by 2020.
‒ this resolution addresses the preparation of the 22nd un conference of the parties on climate change, to be held later this year in marrakech. the conference will inevitably be held under the auspices of the paris conference and the agreement reached there. this resolution also reflects that. we are not following the laudatory tone with regard to the paris agreement. there are several problems with this agreement. in addition to the lack of agreed limits on ghg emissions, the agreement maintains and legitimises a market approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument. the agreement abandoned the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialized countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries. the agreement also includes a dimension of financing projects by large transnational groups in developing countries, enhancing the imperialist domination of the resources of these countries. these are views and options which are also expressed and defended in this resolution, and to which we are obviously opposed and which we counter with an alternative view, based on a normative approach and a common but necessarily differentiated responsibility.
‒ recalling that the paris agreement will enter into force on the 30th day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention and around 55% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession at the un, parliament referred to several issues such as climate action based on a sound scientific basis; the urgency of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement; the conference of the parties (cop) 22 in marrakesh; the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol; the comprehensive effort of all sectors; the reduction of non-greenhouse gas emissions, industry and competitiveness; energy policy; research, innovation and digital technologies; the role of non-state actors; climate change through adaptation; and others. the ep is committed to ratifying the paris agreement as soon as possible and to using its influence at international level and its membership of international parliamentary networks to move forward firmly and rapidly with the ratification and implementation of the paris agreement. in view of the contents of this report, i have voted in favour.
‒ the paris agreement on climate change is a historic achievement of unparalleled importance in the fight against climate change and in favour of multilateralism. this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement and its adoption marks a decisive turning point towards a more comprehensive and collective global action to combat climate change. despite the positive commitment by all countries to limiting average global warming, this alone does not guarantee that significant negative impacts on climate can be avoided and it is therefore necessary to understand the concrete policy implications of limiting global warming to 1.5 °c. the eu has actively promoted the implementation of this agreement and should therefore demonstrate its commitment to it, including by reviewing its own long-term policy objectives and instruments - and by starting this process as soon as possible. the eu's relentless commitment to 'climate diplomacy' is essential to improve the perception of the importance of this fight, especially among global public opinion and in third countries where such perception is low or non-existent. i also believe that a sound architecture for the implementation of this agreement is fundamental - ideas also expressed in this report which i voted in favour of.
‒ the paris agreement has been called a landmark. the big problem is that cop-21 did not set targets or define the means to achieve the objectives presented. and he pushed the problem to 2030. the marrakesh conference (cop 22) is not expected to bring any new developments in this respect. the rich countries will continue to beat their breasts, hoping that this alone will reduce emissions and meet the pious promises and agreements that have been made. they will continue to propose market solutions to a problem whose root lies precisely in the market economy and capitalism with its logic of profit accumulation. for us communists, the resolution of this environmental emergency is inseparable from the struggle to overcome capitalism and the emergence of a new society and a new model of social production in which the state has control of the fundamental levers of the economy. everything else is more palliative.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2016 united nations climate change conference in marrakech, morocco, for advocating the need to tackle the global challenge of climate change through international cooperation. i would stress the introduction of several amendments to the text of the resolution, among which i would highlight the call for concerted action by the eu and other major global emitters to bring the 'predicted nationally determined contributions' closer to the 2°c target. it is now up to the parties to the agreement to demonstrate their commitment to decarbonisation through concrete actions at the next summit in morocco. in this context, i recall the historic ratification of the paris agreement by the european parliament on 4 october, which will allow it to enter into force as early as 4 november 2016, launching the first conference of the parties in marrakesh under the new agreement.
‒ the regulation of materials intended to come into contact with food contributes to the defence of public health and the protection of consumers. the adoption of legally binding standards for four of the 17 materials listed in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 (plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials), the framework regulation on this subject, has resulted in legislative harmonisation that defends competitiveness and innovation in the internal market by subjecting all operators to the same rules. i therefore advocate harmonizing the regulation of the other 13 materials intended to come into contact with food, especially those which pose the greatest risk to the health of consumers and which are in greater demand on the market, namely paper and cardboard, metals and alloys, glass, silicones and rubber. the absence of common rules undermines the internal market and often transfers compliance costs to consumers. i share the concern about the implementation and enforcement of the current legislation, in particular in the areas of risk assessment, traceability, enforcement and compliance monitoring. to this end, i believe that the european food safety authority (efsa) should receive increased support (including financial support). i therefore support this report.
‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, etc. when brought into contact with food, different materials may, depending on their composition and properties, behave differently by transferring their constituents to food. further harmonisation in the area of food contact materials (including non-harmonised materials) is one way forward because it would be a step in the right direction, giving priority to materials that pose a specific risk to human health and that are in greater demand on the eu market. action at eu level is needed to address the absence of specific measures and gaps in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control.
‒ this report addresses the need for a review of the regulation on food contact materials (fcms), widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, cutlery, etc. when brought into contact with food, these different materials may behave differently, transferring some of their constituents to food - a phenomenon known as migration - and some may endanger human health by contaminating or adversely altering the composition of food. to date, specific measures have been adopted at eu level for only four fcms: plastics (including recycled plastics), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for other fcms, member states may adopt specific measures at national level. these measures may differ from one member state to another, with different standards for product safety depending on where the product is used and marketed. current eu legislation on fcms allows chemicals that are banned to be used for other purposes. on the other hand, it ignores the effect of endocrine disruption, carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductive toxic effects, bioaccumulation effects or other harmful properties. it is therefore relevant to address the lack of specific measures and gaps in the risk assessment, implementation, traceability, compliance and control of fcms.
‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, etc. when brought into contact with food, different materials may, depending on their composition and properties, behave differently by transferring their constituents to food. in such cases, chemicals emanating from food contact materials may endanger human life or adversely affect the composition of the food. this legislation aims to safeguard a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market for materials intended to come into contact with food. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report addresses the need for a review of the regulation on food contact materials (fcms), widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, cutlery, etc. when brought into contact with food, these different materials may behave differently, transferring some of their constituents to food - a phenomenon known as migration - and some may endanger human health by contaminating or adversely altering the composition of food. to date, specific measures have been adopted at eu level for only four fcms: plastics (including recycled plastics), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for other fcms, member states may adopt specific measures at national level. these measures may differ from one member state to another, with different standards for product safety depending on where the product is used and marketed. current eu legislation on fcms allows chemicals that are banned to be used for other purposes. on the other hand, it ignores the effect of endocrine disruption, carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductive toxic effects, bioaccumulation effects or other harmful properties. it is therefore relevant to address the lack of specific measures and gaps in the risk assessment, implementation, traceability, compliance and control of fcms.
‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, utensils, etc. the regulation lays down safety requirements for all possible materials intended to come into contact with food, providing for the possibility of adopting specific measures for 17 materials. specific measures adopted by one member state at national level may differ from those in another member state, creating different standards for product safety. in addition, it leads to barriers in the internal market, with an increase in compliance costs and a loss of competitiveness and innovation. according to the ep study, a major challenge is that several substances in food contact materials are not currently under assessment. this is the case of so-called 'non-intentionally added substances' (nia) which are impurities of intentionally added substances or substances resulting from chemical reactions, which are present in the finished material. action at eu level is needed to address the absence of specific measures in the eu and gaps in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, etc. when brought into contact with food, different materials may, depending on their composition and properties, behave differently by transferring their constituents to food. in such cases, the chemicals emanating from these materials may endanger human life or adversely alter the composition of the foodstuffs. the legislation aims to safeguard a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market for these materials. specific measures have so far been adopted at eu level for only four materials intended to come into contact with food: plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for other materials intended to come into contact with food, member states may adopt specific measures at national level. this creates a situation where specific measures adopted by one member state at national level may differ from those in another member state, creating different standards for product safety and barriers to the internal market. greater harmonisation at eu level is a step in the right direction.
‒ materials and articles in contact with food are widely used in everyday life (e.g. food packaging, kitchen utensils). when placed in contact with food and depending on their composition and properties, materials behave differently, passing on parts of their constituents. however, the chemicals emitted by these objects can alter the composition of foodstuffs and endanger human health. although these products are subject to community rules (to which they are legally bound), the existing regulation sets out only the general safety requirements and also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures in accordance with the legislation of each member state. so far, only four specific measures common to the eu have been adopted for materials/objects. however, the specific measures adopted by one member state may differ from those taken into account by another, so the absence of common european measures not only impedes the internal market, but also leads to increased compliance costs (often passed on to consumers) and a loss of competitiveness and innovation/development capacity. i think that this is a very important aspect of food safety and i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. this report says it gives voice to the call of various stakeholders, including ngos and universities, stating that there is an urgent and clear need for action at eu level to address the lack of specific measures and gaps in risk assessment, implementation, traceability, compliance and control of fcms. greater harmonisation at eu level is called for for non-harmonised materials, through specific measures based on scientific evidence, giving priority to materials that pose a particular risk to human health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the schaldemose report because i consider it necessary to adopt minimum harmonization rules for materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. the eu already has common standards for plastics, ceramics and pulp, but there are still 13 types of materials for which member states can still adopt national provisions, such as paper, cardboard, certain metals, glass, silicone and some paints. i would like to point out that within these materials, bisphenol is a particularly controversial endocrine disruptor. portugal has already gone ahead of the european union in banning the use of bisphenol in baby bottles. i believe that in situations where substances with potentially harmful effects on health are involved, the precautionary principle should prevail. at the same time i support the need for scientific research with solid results on the safety of materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, for the benefit of consumers, the environment and manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ parliament looks annually at the state of implementation of community legislation. a key exercise for the legislator, but one which is particularly important given the institutional architecture of the union: for example, directives depend on action by member states to enter into force. once again, this report makes a good diagnosis, identifying the areas where member states are most likely to fail to comply. it also notes a decrease in infringement actions, as a result of increased dialogue between the commission and the member states in the 'pre-litigation' phase. although desirable, this dialogue - called the 'eu pilot' - is not very transparent, limiting public scrutiny and scrutiny by the institutions, in particular this parliament. i therefore support this report, stressing the need to improve the implementation of community legislation and the scrutiny of parliament.
‒ the report shows that environment, transport, internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014 but the number of formal infringement cases has decreased over the last five years. one conclusion that can be drawn from the report is therefore that the application of community law remains insufficiently transparent. it is therefore agreed that parliament could and should play a more structured role in analysing the way in which the candidate countries and the countries which have concluded association agreements with the european union comply with eu law and in developing appropriate support in this area for these countries.
‒ this annual report monitors the application of eu law by the eu institutions. the general sense is no different from previous years. they highlight some curiosities. for example, it states in the recitals that there were 3715 complaints, with a significant number concerning spain (553), italy (475) and germany (276). but when we move from complaints to cases (initiated by the european commission) the figures change, with the following countries in the lead, totalling 893: greece (89), italy (89) and spain (86). the obvious question is: what happened to germany? what about greece? it's very clear. we oppose the supervisory approach, advocated in the report and embedded in the treaties, which gives the european commission the power to initiate infringement proceedings 'in order to ensure compliance with union law' and supports the court of justice being able to impose sanctions on member states for late transposition of eu law. and not just because of the discriminatory nature of the assessments, which are always political assessments, as is clear. we also reject outright the possibility of financial sanctions, as advocated in the report, which is the situation portugal is now facing. we obviously voted against it.
‒ the 32nd annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of eu law contains, once again, interesting information on the effective transposition and practical application of eu law. the report thus shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. the annual report also points out that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the past five years. we must therefore continue to work to minimise the existing impacts. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this commission report concerns the monitoring of the application of eu law and contains data on the effective transposition and practical application of eu law. according to the commission, the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years, and this decrease reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with the member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. however, it is regrettable that the european parliament has little access to information on this procedure and on the cases pending. i am in favour of extending the time limits for implementing the legislation to ensure that member states are able to comply with them. to this end, more appropriate timetables for the application of the regulations and directives should be established, taking due account of the necessary monitoring and consultation periods. the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making contains provisions aimed at improving the implementation and enforcement of eu law. improving the transposition process and the need for member states to identify and notify national measures that complement european directives is vital.
the document reflects the usual evaluation of the application of eu law by the european institutions. a hymn to interference, which nevertheless reveals the duality in the respect of the 'rules' by country. the great powers will benefit from the so-called closer cooperation and more structured dialogue with the commission, which the report highlights, but which in practice will be nothing more than a procedure by which they escape the rules they impose and use to ensure the centralization of power and control of small and medium-sized countries, coerced under the cunning and unacceptable process of blackmail and the threat of sanctions, such as those to which portugal has been subjected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. a view of control and punishment which constitutes an attack on the sovereignty of the member states and which we reject outright. the pressure and interference on member states in defining their priorities and legislative framework is further increased by the 'better regulation' institutional agreement, an instrument for the harmonisation of the legal and legislative framework, or the proposal to create a european administrative law. reasons that could only justify a vote against.
‒ the annual report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement proceedings remain pending in 2014. given that the european parliament still has relatively limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure dialogue with member states and on ongoing proceedings, it is difficult to assess to what extent the reduction of formal infringement proceedings better reflects in practice the compliance of member states with eu law than solutions agreed between the commission and the member states. as can be seen, the application of community law is still not sufficiently transparent. the rapporteur therefore believes that a regulation on the administrative procedure of the union administration could be useful and easily enacted. it also considered that parliament could and should play a more structured role in analysing the way in which the applicant countries and the countries which have concluded association agreements with the european union comply with eu law and in developing appropriate support in this area for these countries. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. it also stresses that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the past five years. according to the commission, this decrease reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with the member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. however, the european parliament still has relatively limited access to information on this procedure and on ongoing proceedings. one conclusion that can be drawn from the report is that the application of community law is still not sufficiently transparent. parliament could and should play a more structured role in examining how the applicant countries and the countries which have concluded association agreements with the eu comply with eu law and in developing appropriate support in this area for these countries.
‒ this is the 32nd annual report produced by the commission on monitoring the application of european union law. the report finds that sectors such as the environment, transport, the internal market and services are those with the highest number of infringement cases pending, although the volume of cases has decreased over the past five years. this may be due to the effectiveness of the eu pilot informal pre-litigation phase procedure, although there is some difficulty in confirming whether its use has an effective reflection in a greater and better compliance with eu law by member states. this means that there is still a lack of transparency in the application of community law and in this respect i support the solution proposed within the juri committee to create a regulation on the administrative procedure of the union's administration as a way of promoting a better and more effective transposition and practical application of european law. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its content.
‒ this annual report monitors the application of european union law by the european institutions. it is the responsibility of the commission, as guardian of the treaties, article 17 teu, to monitor whether or not states apply the treaties and union law. we do not recognise financial sanctions against states. look at what is happening now with portugal. we are against the commission's monitoring role and the discriminatory nature of its assessments of whether or not community law is being applied correctly. that is never more than political appraisals, as you can see.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law on the protection of human health and the environment when deliberate releases of genetically modified organisms into the environment are made for any purpose other than placing on the market. i agree to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
‒ once again, the exception has become the rule as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision. the genetically modified event bt11 maize expresses the cry1ab protein, which is a protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki) that confers resistance to european maize pitch (ostrinia nubilalis) and mediterranean maize pitch (sesamia nonagrioides), and the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the glufosinate-ammonium herbicide. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls in the hands of the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment. reasons which have been the basis for the refusal (or abstention) of several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, as regards the cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds.
‒ once again, the exception has become the rule as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision. the genetically modified event bt11 maize expresses the cry1ab protein, which is a protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki) that confers resistance to european maize pitch (ostrinia nubilalis) and mediterranean maize pitch (sesamia nonagrioides), and the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the glufosinate-ammonium herbicide. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls in the hands of the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment. reasons which have been the basis for the refusal (or abstention) of several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ i voted against, as glufosinate is classified as toxic for reproduction and therefore falls under the exclusion criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. for substances already approved, the exclusion criteria apply when the approval needs to be renewed and the approval of glufosinate expires in 2017. the use of glufosinate should in principle no longer be allowed in 2017.
in writing. - i voted against this report, following the indication of my group, which advocated opposition to the commission's decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize seeds designated bt11 (syn btø11-1) (d046173/01). in the scientific opinion adopted in may 2015, the european food safety authority (efsa) stated that the existing data are insufficient to place the larval mortality linked to bt maize in the context of the overall mortality. however, in july 2016, the commission requested efsa to assess by the end of september 2016 whether, on the basis of existing scientific literature and other relevant information, new data have emerged that could change the conclusions and recommendations set out in the scientific opinions on the planting of the genetically modified maize varieties. since no comments were received from easa in the light of what had been previously reported, i do not see any reason to reject the commission's decision, subject, in the light of the principle of prudence, to appropriate amendments if new elements arise which justify this.
‒ we support this opposition, and any future objection to the authorisation of gmos, as a matter of principle, but also for the purpose of showing the european commission the need to correct the recently adopted legislation with a legislative proposal that will respect the right of an individual not to authorise gmos for food on its territory.
‒ i voted in favour of all the objections under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, because i agree with the opposition to genetically modified substances for which there are no solid scientific results yet to allow authorisation without compromising public health. the european socialist group will therefore continue to support these objections in a concerted manner until the commission proposes a new legislative framework for these substances.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law on the protection of human health and the environment when deliberate releases of genetically modified organisms into the environment are made for any purpose other than placing on the market. i agree to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
‒ the genetically modified maize line 1507 expresses the cry1f protein, which is a protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki) that confers resistance to the european corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) and some other lepidopteran pests such as the pink borer (sesamia spp.), the cartridge caterpillar (spodoptera frugiperda), the black borer (agrotis ipsilon) and the southwestern corn borer (diatraea grandiosella), and the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f in target insect pests has been identified by the efsa gmo panel as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the acquisition of resistance may lead to altered pest control practices that may cause adverse environmental effects. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls in the hands of the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment. reasons which have been the basis for the refusal (or abstention) of several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, as regards the cultivation of genetically modified maize seed 1507.
‒ the genetically modified maize line 1507 expresses the cry1f protein, which is a protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki) that confers resistance to the european corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) and some other lepidopteran pests such as the pink borer (sesamia spp.), the cartridge caterpillar (spodoptera frugiperda), the black borer (agrotis ipsilon) and the south-western corn borer (diatraea grandiosella), and the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f in target insect pests has been identified by the efsa gmo panel as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the acquisition of resistance may lead to altered pest control practices that may cause adverse environmental effects. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls in the hands of the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment. reasons which have been the basis for the refusal (or abstention) of several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour.
‒ i voted against, as the genetically modified maize 1507 expresses the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein (derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki) that confers resistance to the european variant of the corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) and other lepidopteran pests such as sesamia albiciliata, the american corn lizard (spodoptera frugiperda), agrotis ipsilon and diatraea grandiosella, as well as the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the glufosinate-ammonium herbicide. similarly, the development of a possible resistance to cry1f protein by the targeted lepidopterans is considered by the gmo panel of efsa as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the evolution of resistance may lead to a change in pest control practices which may in turn have adverse effects on the environment.
‒ as in the case of genetically modified maize bt11, i have followed the advice of my group in this report to not oppose the commission's decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize seeds designated 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) (d046172/00). genetically modified maize 1507 expresses the cry1f protein, which is a bt protein, which confers resistance to the european variant of the maize pit and other pests. however, the scientific opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) of may 2015 stated that currently the data available are insufficient to prove that bt-related larval mortality cannot be placed in the context of overall mortality. since the easa did not forward any consideration contrary to the previously communicated, i considered that there were no grounds for rejecting the commission's decision position subject to the necessary amendments, should new elements arise which justify it.
‒ we support this opposition, and any future objection to the authorisation of gmos, as a matter of principle, but also for the purpose of showing the european commission the need to correct the recently adopted legislation with a legislative proposal that will respect the right of an individual not to authorise gmos for food on its territory.
‒ i voted in favour of all the objections under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, because i agree with the opposition to genetically modified substances for which there are no solid scientific results yet to allow authorisation without compromising public health. the european socialist group will therefore continue to support these objections in a concerted manner until the commission proposes a new legislative framework for these substances.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i agree with the withdrawal of the draft implementing decision and with the submission of a new legislative proposal amending the regulation in question.
‒ the cultivation of the genetically modified maize mon810 is prohibited in belgium (wallonia), bulgaria, denmark, germany (except for research cultivation), greece, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, hungary, malta, the netherlands, austria, poland, slovenia, northern ireland, scotland and wales. there is a lack of post-market environmental monitoring as noted by the european food safety authority (efsa) in the 2014 post-market environmental monitoring (pmem) report, which refers to non-compliance with e.g. the implementation of bt-free shelters in spain as observed in previous years, with methodological limitations similar to those found in previous annual pmem reports on mon810 maize. in addition, the easa has arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination of maize from the scope of its scientific opinions, thus failing to address all the potential risks to biodiversity arising from the cultivation of this gmo. the resolution therefore considers that the risk assessment on cultivation carried out by easa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, as regards the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810.
‒ the cultivation of the genetically modified maize mon810 is prohibited in belgium (wallonia), bulgaria, denmark, germany (except for research cultivation), greece, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, hungary, malta, the netherlands, austria, poland, slovenia, northern ireland, scotland and wales. there is a lack of post-market environmental monitoring as noted by the european food safety authority (efsa) in the 2014 post-market environmental monitoring (pmem) report, which refers to non-compliance with e.g. the implementation of bt-free shelters in spain as observed in previous years, with methodological limitations similar to those found in previous annual pmem reports on mon810 maize. in addition, the easa has arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination of maize from the scope of its scientific opinions, thus failing to address all the potential risks to biodiversity arising from the cultivation of this gmo. the resolution therefore considers that the risk assessment on cultivation carried out by the easa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate. we voted in favour.
‒ i voted against, as the genetically modified maize mon 810, as described in the application, expresses the cry1ab protein, derived from bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki, which confers protection against certain lepidopteran insect pests, including the european variant of the corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis) (bce) and sesamia spp. taking into account the provisions of article 26c (2) of directive 2001/18/ec, the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 is prohibited in the following territories: the region of wallonia (belgium); bulgaria; denmark; germany (except for research purposes); greece; france; croatia; italy; cyprus; latvia; lithuania; luxembourg; hungary; malta; the netherlands; austria; poland; slovenia; northern ireland (united kingdom); scotland (united kingdom); wales (united kingdom). in its scientific opinion of 28 may 2015 updating the risk management recommendations to limit the exposure of non-target lepidoptera with conservation concerns in protected habitats, efsa indicated that currently, the available data are not sufficient to allow the insertion of bt-related larval mortality into the overall mortality context.
‒ the case of genetically modified maize mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6) (d046170/00) is a similar case to those described in the previously voted reports (seeds bt11 and 1507). i have also followed the instructions of my group in not opposing the commission's decision. this genetically modified maize expresses the cry1ab protein, which confers protection against certain lepidopteran insect pests, including the european variant of the corn borer (ostrinia nubilalis). in july 2016, the commission requested the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess by the end of september 2016 whether, on the basis of the existing scientific literature and any other relevant information, new elements have emerged that could alter the conclusions and recommendations of the efsa scientific opinions on the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810, bt11, 1507 and ga21. easa has not made any statements contrary to those submitted so far and i therefore consider that there are no grounds for rejecting the commission's decision as regards the renewal of the authorisation. this is my position, of course, subject to any amendments that may be deemed appropriate should new scientific evidence arise to justify it.
‒ we support this opposition, and any future objection to the authorisation of gmos, as a matter of principle, but also for the purpose of showing the european commission the need to correct the recently adopted legislation with a legislative proposal that will respect the right of an individual not to authorise gmos for food on its territory.
‒ i voted in favour of all the objections under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, because i agree with the opposition to genetically modified substances for which there are no solid scientific results yet to allow authorisation without compromising public health. the european socialist group will therefore continue to support these objections in a concerted manner until the commission proposes a new legislative framework for these substances.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i agree with the withdrawal of the draft implementing decision and with the submission of a new legislative proposal amending the regulation in question.
‒ we are faced with renewal proposals submitted by monsanto europe sa for existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from mon810 maize, including cultivation. once again, as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision, the exception has become the rule. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls to the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment, reasons which were the basis for the refusal (or abstention) position taken by several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 in the case of the renewal of the authorisation to place genetically modified maize mon 810 products on the market.
‒ we are faced with renewal proposals submitted by monsanto europe sa for existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from mon810 maize, including cultivation. once again, as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision, the exception has become the rule. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls to the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment, reasons which were the basis for the refusal (or abstention) position taken by several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ whereas in 2007 monsanto europe s.a. submitted three applications to the commission for the renewal of the authorisation of existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from or containing mon 810 maize and the authorisation of mon 810 maize in products consisting of it, it is claimed that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the regulation. the draft commission implementing decision is considered not to be in accordance with union law, insofar as it is not compatible with the purpose of the regulation concerned, and the commission is requested to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit, on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a new legislative proposal amending the regulation to take into account frequently expressed concerns at national level that do not concern only issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment. in view of what is presented in this report, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report, following the indication of my political group, not to oppose the commission's decision concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize designated mon 810 (mon-øø81ø-6). since there is no scientific opinion from the european food safety authority (efsa) or any other body to support the prohibition of the marketing of this genetically modified maize, i do not think there are sufficient grounds for prohibiting the marketing of this product, and i have therefore voted against this report. however, the position adopted today is subject to revision if new scientific evidence is found to justify it.
‒ we support this opposition, and any future objection to the authorisation of gmos, as a matter of principle, but also for the purpose of showing the european commission the need to correct the recently adopted legislation with a legislative proposal that will respect the right of an individual not to authorise gmos for food on its territory.
‒ i voted in favour of all the objections under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, because i agree with the opposition to genetically modified substances for which there are no solid scientific results yet to allow authorisation without compromising public health. the european socialist group will therefore continue to support these objections in a concerted manner until the commission proposes a new legislative framework for these substances.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i agree with the withdrawal of the draft implementing decision and with the submission of a new legislative proposal amending the regulation in question.
in writing. the genetically modified cotton concerned by this objection expresses the protein phosphinotrichin acetyltransferase (pat) and the modified protein cp4epsps, which confer tolerance to herbicides containing glufosinate ammonium and glyphosate, and the cry1f and cry1 ac proteins, which confer protection against certain lepidopteran pests. once again, as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision, the exception has become the rule. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls to the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment, reasons which were the basis for the refusal (or abstention) position taken by several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 829/2003 in the case of the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913.
in writing. the genetically modified cotton concerned by this objection expresses the protein phosphinotrichin acetyltransferase (pat) and the modified protein cp4epsps, which confer tolerance to herbicides containing glufosinate ammonium and glyphosate, and the cry1f and cry1 ac proteins, which confer protection against certain lepidopteran pests. once again, as regards the procedures of this authorisation decision, the exception has become the rule. there was no consensus among the member states, so, according to the perverse legislative framework in place, the decision falls to the european commission which invariably takes a pro-gmo stance, even in the absence of long-term food toxicity studies and in the face of insufficient risk assessment, reasons which were the basis for the refusal (or abstention) position taken by several member states. this resolution objects to the authorization of this genetically modified organism (gmo). we voted in favour. it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ i voted against, as the genetically modified das-24236-5×das-21ø23-5×mon-88913-8 cotton expresses the protein phospho-nitric acid acetyltransferase (pat) which confers tolerance to glufosinate-ammonium herbicides, the modified protein cp4 5-enolpyruvicyl-chicimate-3-phosphate-synthase (cp4epsps) which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides, and the cry1f and cry1ac proteins which confer protection against certain lepidopteran pests, and whereas on 20 march 2015 the international centre for cancer research the who's cancer agency classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. although cultivation necessarily takes place within the territory of a member state, trade in gmos is cross-border, which means that the national sales and use ban proposed by the commission would be impossible to implement without reintroducing border controls on imports.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified cotton das 24236 5×das 21ø23 5×mon-88913-8 expresses the protein phospho-antitrycin acetyltransferase (pat) which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides and protection against certain lepidopteran pests and may be placed on the market in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. however, on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer - the who's cancer agency - classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in april this year, in a similar vote, i took into account both the assessment of the european food safety authority (efsa) that glyphosate was 'unlikely to be carcinogenic to humans' and the doubts expressed by the scientific community, and in the light of the precautionary principle, i decided to abstain in this vote as well.
‒ we support this opposition, and any future objection to the authorisation of gmos, as a matter of principle, but also for the purpose of showing the european commission the need to correct the recently adopted legislation with a legislative proposal that will respect the right of an individual not to authorise gmos for food on its territory.
‒ i voted in favour of all the objections under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, because i agree with the opposition to genetically modified substances for which there are no solid scientific results yet to allow authorisation without compromising public health. the european socialist group will therefore continue to support these objections in a concerted manner until the commission proposes a new legislative framework for these substances.
madam president, the nuclear agreement with iran is decisive, as we all hope, for regional and global security and non-proliferation, the result of historic negotiations in which european and american diplomacy have been engaged. a new page has thus been opened in eu-iran relations which cannot be overridden by the need for dialogue in an area where the european and iranian authorities maintain substantial differences on respect for human rights, including women's rights, the use and abuse of the death penalty and other degrading treatment. this dialogue is not useless, it must be frank, vigorous and creative: it must not fall apart in the face of a government which is under pressure from within by a young, educated society eager to reintegrate into the international community. economic and trade opportunities are also enabling greater exchange between the european and iranian peoples. the lifting of sanctions against iran opens the iranian market to european companies and investment. however, iran still needs to commit and invest in complying with the recommendations of the international financial action task force to create a transparent and accountable economic environment. but let us be clear: to restrict the euro-iranian relationship to economic and commercial objectives is to fail strategically. iran is a regional power that should be encouraged to play a role in resolving conflicts and not in aggravating them. iran can help end the war in neighboring syria, but today it fights alongside russia to preserve the tyrant assad at the expense of the slaughtered syrian people. the european union should use a new relationship with iran and other regional actors to deter the sunni-shiite sectarian confrontation fuelled by saudi arabia, qatar and erdogan's turkey. a solution that gives peace and a future to the syrians and all the peoples in the region is the only way for europe and iran to protect their own security.
mr president, commissioner, about a year ago a historic agreement was reached with iran which represented a milestone in the fight against nuclear proliferation and an important step towards making the world a safer place. with the lifting of economic and financial sanctions related to iran's nuclear programme, europe has sought to seize the opportunities of a market of 80 million people, even if it has to turn a blind eye to the constant human rights violations of the dictatorial regime of the ayatollahs. but if it is true that europe is doing everything it can to take advantage of these opportunities, it is equally true that the expansion of institutional and trade relations must be strictly conditional on the progress made by iran in the field of human rights. i therefore believe that the motion for a resolution on iran which was voted this month by the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament does not reflect this conditionality and maintains an unacceptable business-as-usual stance against an oppressive regime which systematically manipulates the democratic process, has a dismal record of human rights violations, is the world leader in executions per capita and of persons under the age of 18 and is a repressor of women and religious minorities. for all this, mr howitt, i feel it is our duty to ensure that this resolution does not become a mere political propaganda tool for the theocratic regime in tehran, which, being a regime which needs this level of violence to repress its own citizens, shows great weaknesses in order to become a true, credible and reliable diplomatic and economic partner for the european union. ladies and gentlemen, human rights are not negotiable, they are part of our collective responsibility as human beings and europeans!
mr president, i would like to make just three points on this difficult subject. first, to congratulate you on signing this agreement. this action plan can be a very important milestone on the road to political stabilization in a region which has been marked by instability and also by the existence of numerous conflicts which are trying to survive and cause a high level of suffering to various peoples in this vast territory. secondly, i would like to remind all those who reject gradual approaches, in which change and solidarity are built up step by step and in the measure of concrete achievements and the establishment of bonds of mutual trust, understanding and acceptance, that our european union was designed exactly in this way by the founding fathers, as robert schuman said in his well-known declaration. and that is why, and because i believe that change is made easier, faster and more solidly through approximation and not through blind conditionality, pure imposition, the absolute rejection of cultural prejudice and paternalism, i generally agree with the position adopted by the afet committee. before i close, i would like to stress that there are universal principles which we cannot compromise, and the death penalty is one of them. i have made several amendments to this effect, and that is why i insist in the plenary, despite the fact that it is already written in the resolution, that the iranian authorities should once again, as a demonstration of their commitment to this rapprochement between our peoples, immediately impose a moratorium on the execution of death sentences in their country.
mr president, i thank laura ferrara for this follow-up to the 2013 resolution on crime, reiterating the call for the adoption of a european action plan to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it is not enough to adopt legislation and ratify treaties, we need a concerted plan between the commission and the member states, multidisciplinary and holistic in nature, involving the various agencies fighting crime, but also member states' administrations, parliaments and civil society. mutual trust needs to be fostered and cross-border cooperation procedures streamlined. we demand the publication of the second eu anti-corruption report, which has not yet been published. the follow-up to the recommendations of the report should be integrated into the recommendations of the european semester. the european union institutions themselves must also be subject to integrity assessment. the union's accession to the group of states against corruption (greco) should be advanced as soon as possible.
mr president, the majority of this european parliament is continuing its efforts to whitewash the responsibilities and consequences of european union policies in the field of migration. internally, the very serious humanitarian crisis is intensifying as a result of your austerity and impoverishment policies, while externally, hundreds of thousands of refugees are fleeing hunger, poverty, persecution and war. it conceals the role of the eu, the us and nato in destabilising the middle east and north africa, including by imposing war and destruction. they continue to defend a strong europe, the militarization of the humanitarian response, the policy of return and the externalization of borders, the criminal european migration policy which erects walls of shame and keeps tens of thousands of refugees imprisoned in the most deplorable conditions and which causes thousands of deaths in the mediterranean. racist and xenophobic policies which are fuelling the far right and fascism in europe. the european union is now an international reference point, a reference point in the violation of international law and human rights.
mr president, in addressing a pertinent and just question, the report starts from the wrong premise, that capitalism can be humanized. it is the nature of the capitalist system, its predatory and exploitative aspect, that is the root of the problem. the big companies and multinationals exploit, directly or indirectly, in the name of profit and greedily, the natural resources of the peoples of third countries, without any qualms about committing the most heinous environmental crimes against the populations or inhumanely exploiting workers. references to the need for higher workers' rights, regulation of labour, better distribution of wealth or the sovereign role of states in protecting workers, peoples and resources from the exploitation of big monopoly capital are overlooked or non-existent. the need for trade policies which are not new neocolonial instruments, but which respect the sovereignty of states and are based on genuine mutual benefit between equal parties, is also absent.
in writing. this report, on which i worked as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of the s&d group, is a clearly progressive report, which seeks to respond to the challenges posed in the field of human rights by the transnationalisation of business activity, including european companies, for which we obviously have an increased responsibility. it called for human rights clauses to be systematically included in trade agreements between the eu and third countries. it calls for the worldwide implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights. the eu is also calling for a stronger commitment to the binding international treaty being negotiated at the un. it stressed that multinationals should be held legally accountable whenever their operations in third countries result in human rights abuses and that they have a duty to compensate the victims of such abuses. it includes highly relevant recommendations, such as the creation of an eu certificate for products whose production has not involved human rights abuses. at my suggestion, the report states that such a certificate discriminates positively against companies, enabling them to benefit. in short, this excellent report presents very valid ideas and proposals to counter some of the negative effects of globalisation and deserves, in my view, the support of this house.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mr gyürk for his work on this very important strategy and, as rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on transport, i obviously could not miss this opportunity to mention the importance of liquefied natural gas for maritime transport and for heavy vehicles as an alternative fuel. it is essential to create a network of supply and storage infrastructure, but not excluding the maritime ports of the islands, as referred to in the alternative fuels directive. the solution also involves the construction of small-scale infrastructure and the use of regular cabotage vessels. that is why, as also mentioned in this report, i proposed the creation of a joint project for blue lng corridors to the islands, the outermost regions of the atlantic, in particular madeira and the azores, and to make it possible to adapt ports, work on sea links and the conversion of ships. i therefore ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to this project, which is of interest to portugal but also to the european union, and to commit himself to supporting and providing funds for its implementation.
mr president, mr commissioner, liquefied natural gas is a very important component in ensuring energy diversification and security and in supporting a sustainable transition to a model based on renewable and clean energy. i was a rapporteur in the envi committee and the opinion stresses the optimisation of existing networks, the importance of supporting the energy transition and, in particular, decarbonising heavy transport and maritime transport. this strategy must be in line with the paris agreement and it is very important to use lng for this transport, maritime and heavy transport issue. i would therefore like to stress the recommendation in this report that the azores archipelago, because of its geographical location, should have a fuelling station for transatlantic shipping routes and it is also very important that the european commission should provide for the financing of such projects in its various financing instruments.
mr president, liquefied natural gas can play an important role in mitigating the effects of greenhouse gases and in pursuing the decarbonisation efforts envisaged in the agreement reached at cop 21, where, as we know, maritime transport was left out of the equation. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. however, i believe that this commitment, while transitory and long-term, can provide europe with another solution to the challenges of this century and an opportunity to promote sustained economic development. i therefore stress and take it very positively that the azores archipelago, given its geostrategic location in the middle of the atlantic, can be a key point for supplying merchant ships with liquefied natural gas.
mr president, it is really important to devise a strategy to make the control of fishing activities in europe more efficient and fairer. as our rapporteur, isabelle thomas, points out, and i take the opportunity to congratulate her on the work she has done, there are significant differences in the legal approach and the final price between the various member states, which promote injustice and misunderstanding. in addition to harmonisation at national level, there are other instruments which may partially mitigate this problem. for example, training proposals should be drawn up, starting with the european fisheries control agenda, for use by national and regional fisheries authorities. i also think it would be very interesting to strengthen the use of new technologies and international cooperation, including with third countries. for all these reasons, i would appeal to the house to vote in favour of the report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again.
madam president, we cannot have a europe which spends all its energy on monitoring a few tenths of the budget deficit but turns a blind eye to very serious violations of the rule of law and fundamental rights which call into question the essential european values. that is why we need, even before any revision of the treaties, a more effective mechanism to prevent, identify and correct these situations, going further than the procedure instituted, well, by the commission and which is being applied for the first time in the case of poland. the report we are discussing here proposes this mechanism, with a regular and independent assessment of the rule of law situation, which then allows the drawing up of country-specific recommendations. it seems a good solution, provided that - and this is a key point - it ensures that it is a mechanism aimed at serious and systematic violations of fundamental rights and the rule of law and does not become a gratuitous invasion of the margin of governance of the member states... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the rule of law is a basic principle of the european union, we demand it as a condition for joining the union, it is one of the copenhagen criteria. but we are less effective in ensuring this once a member state becomes a member state of the european union and we know that in many states this principle is going through difficult times. it is true that we have article 7 of the treaty on european union, but this is a limiting situation and we have a set of mechanisms in parliament, the european commission and the council which are of little consequence and have no coherence. the initiative we are discussing today is therefore a good step in the right direction, calling for integrated action by the three institutions. but we are still taking the first steps in what will certainly be a long process. i congratulate rapporteur sophia in t veld and the epp shadow rapporteur frank engel, among others, for their commitment and work, but let us be clear from the outset that this is not an exercise in bureaucracy, it is not an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, it is certainly not against any people. protecting the rule of law means defending each and every european citizen, each and every one of the nationalities that make up this union. it is to reaffirm that the union is not just an economic construct but that it has values and knows how to preserve and defend them.
madam president, we are facing yet another unacceptable assault on the sovereignty of the states by deepening the mechanisms of federalisation of the european union. three points: firstly, the european union has no legitimacy to give lessons in democracy to anyone. your concept of democracy is, among other things, that of sanctions, which the report also defends and deepens, that of blackmail and pressure. the ceta negotiations or the threats of sanctions against portugal are good examples of this. secondly, the intention to harmonize so-called fundamental rights for countries like portugal, with a progressive constitution, constitutes an unacceptable negative pressure, levelling down the standards of social and labour rights. thirdly, the complexity of european treaties and legislation is an obstacle to the legitimate sovereign decision of each people to decide its own destiny, an obstacle to the effective implementation of the portuguese constitution and the achievements of the revolution which the portuguese people will sooner or later be able to take back and impose, freeing themselves from the constraints of the treaties.
mr president, europe, which bullies portugal, greece and spain for budgetary tithes and turns a blind eye to the attack on the fundamental rights of immigrant citizens in hungary and poland, is failing miserably. an interinstitutional pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as proposed by the rapporteur, sophia in tveld, is needed. the rule of law, the cornerstone of the legitimacy of the european project, needs to be defended with robust mechanisms, oversight and control to intervene and sanction governments that violate it. only then will we be able to regain the confidence of the citizens in europe. i hope that the commission and the council will not block this proposal from parliament.
mr president, this first monthly report can be a good initiative to give effective answers to the imperative of the security of our citizens which cannot be achieved without european cooperation. in this sense, we are negotiating the counter-terrorism directive, the fourth revision of the money laundering directive, the fifth in which we strengthened europol and the coast and border guard, we created the ran and the internet forum of the european union. but none of this replaces the investment that the commission and member states, strangled by self-inflicted austerity policies, have not made in smart and proximity-based programmes to prevent radicalisation. i also visited mechelen, commissioner king, and indeed the more youth employment is destroyed, the more inclusive social policies are destroyed, the more recruits are being offered by the member states of the european union to violent extremist groups. the council may well be concerned about the return of foreign fighters or the infiltration of migrants. the terrorists who struck us in paris or brussels were european in their make-up. moreover, by fuelling the business of trafficking networks and organised crime associated with the lack of opening legal and safe pathways to europe for immigrant refugees, coupled with the serious human rights violations we are already allowing them to experience on european soil, including the thousands of unaccompanied children who are missing, all this only demonstrates the incoherence, the inefficiency of the so-called anti-terrorist policies of the member states. two other fundamental problems persist: firstly, the reluctance of states to share information, to make services interoperable, as commissioner king has mentioned. the pnr directive, which is often presented as a success, is a demonstration of the lack of application by the member states, data sharing is not even compulsory, the control of private flights is not binding and then there are the issues of the foreign policy dimension, as has already been mentioned by other colleagues.
‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between the security forces of the member states, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security, as is the requirement for a result of greater mutual trust. certain requirements must therefore be met, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. therefore, in order for the automated exchange of dna data to take place, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorizes the start of the automated exchange, since denmark has successfully implemented it.
‒ following the entry into force of the treaty (signed between belgium, germany, spain, france, luxembourg, the netherlands and austria) on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal migration the so-called prum treaty, a decision (2008/615/jha) was adopted by the council in 2008 with the aim of incorporating the content of the prum treaty into the eu legal framework. the report on the automated exchange of dna data in denmark fits into this framework and the serious security measures that have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', involving serious risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state operating in the territory of another member state, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. we proposed amendments - rejected by the majority - which aimed to prohibit the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union affiliation, or relating to health or sex life. we voted against it.
‒ this report is very important for strengthening crossborder law enforcement cooperation in the eu. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i am in favour of deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime. the automatic exchange of dna data in denmark is a key element in this respect. i believe that this decision is an important step in crossborder cooperation. i therefore vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state operating in the territory of another member state, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. we have timely tabled amendments which state that 'processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs or party or trade union affiliation or relating to health or sexual life shall be prohibited', a proposal which the majority of the ep rejected. in line with the positions we have taken in the past on this subject, and because we consider that this mechanism compromises the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens - the fight against terrorism and crime starts with combating the causes, and in these the eu has responsibilities that are not recognised here - we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour, as i consider all forms of intra- and inter-eu cooperation, especially in the field of security and the fight against terrorism, to be positive, provided that the fundamental rights of citizens are respected.
in writing. ‒ only denmark shall be authorised to receive and supply personal data (pdi) pursuant to council decision 2008/615 / jha as from the date of entry into force of this decision.
‒ i supported the european parliament's report on the draft council decision, the main aim of which is to start the exchange of data on dna data in denmark. this draft council implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, for the purposes of automated searching and comparison of dna data, as from the date of entry into force of this decision. in view of the overall evaluation report, in which the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection laid down in that decision and has complied with the other conditions laid down therein, there are no grounds for not approving this report, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the reports now before us on the automated exchange of dna and fingerprint data in denmark fit into this framework and the serious security measures that have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', which pose serious risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state acting on the territory of another, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. the pcp proposed in a specialised committee that 'the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union affiliation, or relating to health or sexual life shall be prohibited'. in line with our previous positions on this subject, and because we consider that this mechanism compromises the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens more than it promotes the 'fight against terrorism' and crime, we voted against it.
‒ decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation substantially incorporates the prüm treaty into the community legal order, while maintaining the objective of encouraging greater cooperation between the security forces of the member states, in particular through greater exchange of information. as i have said on several occasions, this exchange of information is essential in the field of security, as is the requirement for a result of greater mutual trust. certain requirements must therefore be met, in particular the principles of necessity and proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. therefore, in order to allow for the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, each member state should ensure that data protection standards are implemented. this council decision rightly authorizes the start of the automated exchange, since denmark has successfully implemented it.
‒ following the entry into force of the treaty (signed between belgium, germany, spain, france, luxembourg, the netherlands and austria) on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in the field of combating terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal migration the so-called treaty of prüm , a council decision (2008/615/jha) was adopted in 2008 with the aim of incorporating the content of the treaty of prüm into the eu legal framework. the report on the automated exchange of fingerprint data in denmark is part of this framework and of the serious security measures that have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', which pose serious risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state operating in the territory of another member state, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. we proposed amendments - rejected by the majority - which aimed to prohibit the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union affiliation, or relating to health or sex life. we voted against it.
‒ the adoption of this report is very important for the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i am in favour of deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the field of combating terrorism and crossborder crime. the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark is of fundamental importance in this respect. i believe that this decision is an important step in crossborder cooperation. i therefore vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange in denmark.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state operating in the territory of another member state, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. we have timely tabled amendments which state that 'processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs or party or trade union affiliation or relating to health or sexual life shall be prohibited', a proposal which the majority of the ep rejected. in line with the positions we have taken in the past on this subject, and because we consider that this mechanism compromises the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens - the fight against terrorism and crime starts with combating the causes, and in these the eu has responsibilities which are not recognised here - we voted against it.
‒ i voted in favour, as i consider all forms of intra- and inter-eu cooperation, especially in the field of security and the fight against terrorism, to be positive, provided that the fundamental rights of citizens are respected.
in writing. ‒ only denmark shall be authorised to receive and supply personal data (fingerprints) pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of entry into force of this decision.
‒ the aim of this report is to initiate the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark. the european parliament's role in this area is to be consulted on a non-binding basis before the act is adopted by the council. this report is underpinned by decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, by providing personal data through this data exchange, which is based on a prior evaluation report in the form of a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot run. given that denmark has fulfilled these three conditions and that the council concluded in the global assessment report that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision, there are no grounds for not approving the council decision authorising denmark to receive and supply personal data through automated data exchange. i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ the reports now before us on the automated exchange of dna and fingerprint data in denmark fit into this framework and the serious security measures that have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', which pose serious risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the framework for police cooperation, joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state operating in the territory of another member state, as well as the exchange of a very large amount of information, including personal data, are at stake. the pcp proposed in a specialised committee that 'the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union affiliation, or relating to health or sexual life shall be prohibited'. in line with our previous positions on this subject, and because we consider that this mechanism compromises the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens more than it promotes the 'fight against terrorism' and crime, we voted against it.
‒ to cross the external border of the european union, third-country nationals need to be in possession of a visa, in this case for a short stay. however, many countries are already exempt from this obligation, as they meet a set of criteria approved in 2001 and 2014 by the european parliament and the council, including respect for fundamental rights, the security of the visa system or the risk of illegal immigration. the visa exemption in this case, however, only applies to holders of diplomatic passports. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement, which is given. i am voting in favour of concluding this agreement with the people's republic of china.
‒ china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area. eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations and to address the negotiating directives for the conclusion of an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the abolition of visas will reduce the waiting time in front of consulates and the costs associated with travel. it will facilitate people-to-people contact - an essential condition for the stable development of economic, cultural and scientific links, as well as other links, as it intensifies people-to-people contact.
‒ in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area. citizens of eu member states also need a visa to enter china. in addition, the visa information system (vis) officially became operational on 12 october 2015 in china. since then, all applicants from china must provide their biometric data when applying for a schengen visa. in this context, on 14 september 2015, the council adopted a decision authorising the european commission to open negotiations and to address negotiating directives for the conclusion of an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the member states of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. we voted in favour.
‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement requires the approval of the ep, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports, and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i hope that this agreement, in addition to facilitating exchanges and closer cooperation with the people's republic of china, will be a step forward towards establishing a full and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of a common passport. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the abolition of visas, which will reduce waiting times and red tape and facilitate economic, cultural and scientific links. however, it is important to stress that visa liberalisation must be accompanied by improvements in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area. eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. in addition, the visa information system (vis) officially became operational on 12 october 2015 in china. since then, all applicants from china must provide their biometric data when applying for a schengen visa. in this context, on 14 september 2015, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations and to address negotiating directives for the conclusion of an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. we voted in favour.
‒ currently, and in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area. citizens of the european union (eu) also need a visa to enter china. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it should be noted that the united kingdom and ireland do not participate in the agreement and are not subject to its provisions. the rapporteur warns that the abolition of visas will reduce waiting times in front of consulates and the costs associated with travel. i voted in favour because the provisions of this report will facilitate people-to-people contacts, which is a necessary condition for the steady development of economic, cultural and scientific links.
‒ i voted in favour, as the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the abolition of visas will reduce the waiting time in front of consulates and the costs associated with travel. it will facilitate people-to-people contact - an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural and scientific links, among others. obviously, visa liberalisation must be accompanied by improvements in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
‒ china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area and vice versa. in 2013, an eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility was launched with a view to concluding a reciprocal agreement on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid diplomatic or free-travel passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the european union for a maximum period of 90 days (in each 180-day period). i voted in favour of this recommendation because i agree with my colleague the rapporteur on the importance of visa-free travel as an important step towards facilitating and bringing people closer together - an essential condition for the stable development of diplomatic and intergovernmental (and obviously cultural) ties, and also the reduction of waiting times at consulates and the costs associated with these trips.
‒ in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, china is one of the countries whose nationals must be visa-holders when travelling to the schengen area. eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. in addition, the visa information system (vis) officially became operational on 12 october 2015 in china. since then, all applicants from china must provide their biometric data when applying for a schengen visa. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding valid eu diplomatic or free-transit passports and for chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. we voted yes.
‒ the economic and financial crisis has put a heavy strain on national economies and member states have adopted adjustment measures to balance their budgets. with the pressure on national budgets, it may be difficult for countries in budgetary difficulties to have sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects. in this regard, the amendments to regulation no 1303/2013 provide for the granting of aid to member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties. the objective is to increase payments to a member state under an adjustment programme by applying a 10 percentage point top-up to the co-financing rates applicable to the priorities of the programmes. it is also proposed to change the period during which the country receives financial assistance and is eligible for additional payments. for the period 2014-2020, the commission proposed that the eligibility of a member state should continue until 30 june of the year following the calendar year in which the member state ceases to receive financial assistance. the increase in co-financing will have a positive effect on the economies of the member states concerned, which will be able to mobilise more resources to complement investment efforts. i therefore support this report.
‒ the economic and financial crisis has put pressure on national economies and member states to adopt austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the proper implementation of the eu's main funding instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esif). with national budgets under pressure, it may be difficult for countries in budgetary difficulties to find sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects. the legislation clearly indicates that the commission would carry out a review before 30 june 2016 and that if the economic situation of the countries concerned so requires, the deadline for providing additional support would be extendable. the commission has put forward a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council on this extension, which i agree with as a precise and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems facing two member states.
‒ the economic and financial crisis, as a result of the implementation of eu policies, has put in question the ability of states to meet the requirements for co-financing of the structural and investment funds, which are, moreover, the only (insufficient) driver of economic and social investment in most of these countries. in this context, at the request of a member state, interim payments may be increased by 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate applicable to each priority for the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the measure is identical to that already adopted for the countries receiving troika assistance. it now applies exclusively to greece and cyprus. we voted in favour, although we think that this measure could be extended to other countries. of course, this is a mere palliative measure which does not resolve the fundamental question of the constraints which prevent adequate investment flows into these countries. these constraints - which it is increasingly necessary to remove - are linked to the policies and instruments of subjugation of states by the eu, of which the euro and the economic and monetary union are the most striking examples.
‒ this report supports the commission's proposal to amend the regulation on the financial management of member states in serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability as a budgetary neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by the two member states, greece and cyprus. to the extent that national budgets are under strain, it becomes difficult, if not impossible, for countries with budgetary difficulties to find sufficient funds for national co-financing of regional policy projects. for these reasons and with the proposed regulations, the commission will be allowed to increase payments under esif programmes to countries which are in economic difficulties. i voted yes.
‒ the prolonged financial and economic crisis has put pressure on national financial resources as member states adopt the necessary fiscal consolidation policies. in this context, ensuring the good implementation of programmes supported by the european structural and investment funds (esif) is of particular importance for investment in growth and jobs. this proposal will allow the commission to continue to make higher payments to member states benefiting from financial assistance after 30 june 2016 for as long as they benefit from this support mechanism, without changing the overall allocation of the esi funds in 2014-2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has forced member states to adopt austerity measures to balance their budgets. the eu's main funding instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esif), requires national co-financing for regional policy projects, and with national budgets under pressure, some member states are having budgetary difficulties in finding sufficient resources. i understand that this proposed amendment to the legislation could provisionally increase the payment appropriations, which would be offset by a decrease in payments at the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission proposal is aimed at solving the temporary liquidity problems facing two member states.
‒ the recent context of economic and financial crisis has put pressure on national economies and forced member states (ms) to adopt austerity measures in order to balance their budgets. ensuring the proper implementation of the eu's main funding instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esif), has become a task of crucial importance, as the pressure on national budgets in the countries with the greatest difficulties could mean that they cannot find sufficient resources to ensure national co-financing of regional policy projects. the amendment to regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 will allow for the increase of certain interim payments and the period during which countries receiving financial assistance are eligible for the additional payment. the present proposal is intended to be a fair and budget-neutral way of helping the economies most affected by extraordinary economic events to overcome their liquidity problems and to make the most of community programmes. as this is a measure which expresses the term 'european solidarity' in economic matters, and as we are unfortunately well aware of the reality which this amendment is intended to fill, i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, recognising that the economic and financial crisis has put pressure on national economies and that member states have adopted austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the proper implementation of the eu's main funding instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esif). with national budgets under pressure, it may be difficult for countries in budgetary difficulties to find sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects. the proposed changes to the legislation could provisionally increase the payment appropriations, which would be offset by a decrease in payments at the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should be no changes to the annual ceilings of the multiannual financial framework for commitment and payment appropriations.
‒ the recent economic and financial crisis has put pressure on national economies and budgets. consequently, in many member states the european structural and investment funds are the main or only source of investment. the committee on regional development accepted the commission's proposal as a budgetary neutral solution to overcome the liquidity problems in the member states and thus help the states most affected by the financial crisis to continue with the implementation programmes on the ground by injecting funds into the economy.
‒ the national budgets of some member states are under pressure as a result of the economic and financial crisis and the consequent austerity measures taken to balance their budgets, making it difficult for these countries to find sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects. it is therefore important to ensure the proper implementation of the eu's main funding instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esif). articles 24 and 120 (3) of the common provisions regulation (cpr) are designed to help member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and benefiting from financial assistance to exploit the investment opportunities offered by the esi funds. the european commission assessed whether the economic situation of the countries concerned required an extension of the deadline for the provision of additional support and subsequently submitted a legislative proposal with amendments that would provisionally increase the payment appropriations for greece and the co-financing rate to 85% for cyprus, possibly giving access to the cohesion fund in the event that the nominal gross national income per capita of cyprus is below 90% of the average. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposal put forward by the commission.
‒ the economic and financial crisis and austerity measures have put in question the ability of states to respond to the co-financing of the structural and investment funds, which are the only vehicle for economic and social investment in most of these countries. in this context, at the request of a member state, interim payments may be increased by 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate applicable to each priority for the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund or for the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this is a positive measure, as it will allow the flow of cohesion funds, which are still the only sources of investment available to the member states, to be maintained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mihaylova report for agreeing with the commission's budgetary proposal to resolve the temporary liquidity problems faced by member states with severe financial stability difficulties. i would like to see support made available so that countries in budgetary difficulties can find sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects, in particular through supplementary payments.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le pen is accused of having publicly incited racial hatred in a video recording published on 6 june 2014 on the internet, there being no link between the expressed opinion and the parliamentary functions of jean-marie le pen and therefore jean-marie le pen did not act in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament. i therefore agree with the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean marie le pen in the context of a legal action brought before the court of first instance in paris. the ground relates to an accusation of incitement to discrimination, hatred and violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their ethnic, national, racial or religious origin. on 6 june 2014, le pen responded to statements by patrick bruel, a singer who said he would not perform in cities that had a national front president, saying: that doesn't surprise me. listen, we'll put them all in the oven together next time. the right to freedom of expression enjoyed by members of the european parliament in principle does not mean that they can defame, slander, incite hatred or make defamatory allegations. it is considered that the deplorable statements made which qualify the character, his party and political project and the process itself have no connection with the status and parliamentary activity of the member of parliament le pen. we are in favour of lifting parliamentary immunity. the rest (which is outside the scope of this report): to the dustbin of history what must never come out!
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, mep jean-marie le pen is accused of publicly inciting racial hatred in a video recording published on 6 june 2014 on the internet. there is no link between the opinion expressed and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and therefore jean-marie le pen did not act in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. there is no indication of suspicion of fumus persecutionis, that is to say, of an attempt to undermine the parliamentary activities of jean-marie le pen. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report because all the legal procedures have been completed and because the offence in question is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal offence was committed with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the application of the principle of equal treatment should be restricted to the member states and that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all persons, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their place of residence, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of residence, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, regardless of their place of origin, and regardless of their nationality. on 6 june 2014, jean-marie le pen responded through different online platforms to statements by patrick bruel, a singer, who said that he would not perform in cities that had a national front president. jean-marie le pen replied that that doesn't surprise me. listen, we'll put them all in the oven together next time. the right to freedom of expression enjoyed by members of the european parliament in principle does not mean that they may defame, slander, incite hatred, racism and xenophobia, or make defamatory allegations or any other statement likely to infringe article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the statements made and the proceedings themselves are considered to have no connection with parliamentary status and activity in the ep, nor is there any suspicion of political persecution. the rapporteur proposes that immunity be lifted, and we are following that analysis. we voted in favour.
‒ the prosecutor-general of the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen, member of the european parliament, in the context of two cases pending before the investigating judges of the paris regional court for incitement to racial hatred. jean-marie le pen is accused of having publicly incited racial hatred in a video recording published on 6 june 2014 on the internet, but there is no link between the expressed opinion and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and therefore jean-marie le pen did not act in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mr jean-marie le pen.
‒ the court of first instance of paris has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen in connection with an alleged criminal offence. jean-marie le pen is accused of having publicly incited racial hatred in a video recording published on 6 june 2014 on the internet. the european parliament decided to waive mr le pen's immunity as there was no link between the opinion he expressed and his parliamentary duties.
‒ the office of the prosecutor general of the paris court of appeal lodged on 14/03/16 two requests for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep jean-marie le pen, in connection with two cases in which he is accused of incitement to racial hatred, in a video recording published on the internet on 06/06/14. in view of the provisions of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the other legislative instruments concerned and the report of the committee on legal affairs, which i endorse, i consider that there is no causal link between the opinion expressed in the recording and the parliamentary duties performed in the european parliament, and therefore, since there is also no indication of persecution or intention to prejudice his parliamentary duties, i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of the immunity of my colleague jean-marie le pen.
‒ parliamentary immunity is intended to guarantee the right to freedom of expression enjoyed in principle by members of the european parliament. however, this right does not mean that they may defame, slander, incite hatred or make defamatory statements or any other statement likely to infringe article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in this particular case, jean-marie le pen is accused of having publicly incited racial hatred in a video recording published on 6 june 2014 on the internet. in this sense, we support the lifting of immunity.
‒ during a ukip party conference in doncaster, jane collins spoke, published and provoked the dissemination to the media and the general public of defamatory words against the applicants, members of the uk parliament. jane collins alleged that the complainants were aware of many of the aspects of the sexual exploitation of children that took place in rotherham over a period of 16 years, during which some 1 400 children were raped, beaten, subjected to alcohol and drugs and violently threatened by men of asian origin, but they deliberately chose not to intervene, allowing the abuse to continue. the plaintiffs seek damages, including aggravated damages, for alleged libel and defamation, as well as an injunction preventing further publication. jane collins was invited to speak before the committee on legal affairs, but elected jim carver, member of the european parliament, to represent her. however, in the light of the arguments put forward, there is no basis for defending jane collins' immunity.
the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. what the member in question wants to be defended, in addition to her immunity, is freedom of movement to be able to be present in parliament and to perform the duties for which she was elected. the libel and slander complaint concerns allegations made by jane collins in a speech at a party conference, which were disclosed to the media and the general public (including via the live broadcast of the event on the bbc parliamentary television channel). according to the case-law of the court of justice, statements made by members of the european parliament outside the premises of the european parliament are considered to be made in the exercise of their duties only if they correspond to a subjective assessment which has a direct and obvious connection with the exercise of those duties. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, jane collins is the subject of a civil action in the united kingdom for damages, including aggravated damages, for alleged libel and defamation, and an injunction against her repeating the controversial statements. there is no direct and obvious connection between the controversial statements and jane collins' duties as a member of the european parliament, as they are not related to her activity as a member of the european parliament nor to the policies of the european union and were made in the context of the national political debate. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of jane collins' immunity.
‒ i shall vote in favour of this report because the offence in question is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member and because there is no evidence or suspicion that the criminal action was initiated with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. the report refers to the request for defence of the immunity of mrs jane collins, following a civil action brought against her in the united kingdom. this is a civil action for damages, including aggravated damages, for alleged libel and defamation, and an injunction against the repeat of the controversial statements. jane collins is reported to have made statements at a party conference, which were leaked to the media, alleging that members of the british parliament had detailed knowledge of a prolonged case of physical violence and sexual exploitation of over a thousand children in rotherham by men of asian origin, deliberately choosing not to intervene, acting out of self-righteousness, cowardice or political selfishness and becoming accomplices to the perpetrators. the parliamentary immunity conferred by article 8 of the protocol shall apply to opinions delivered by members of the european parliament only in the exercise of their duties. there does not appear to be any direct and obvious connection between the controversial statements and jane collins' duties as an mep, as they were made in the context of the national political debate. the rapporteur proposes not to defend the defence of immunity and privileges. we support the proposal and have therefore voted in favour.
‒ whereas jane collins made an application on 3 may 2016, which was served in the house on 11 may 2016, for the defence of her privileges and immunities in the civil action brought against her in the queen's bench division of the high court in london, which relates to her allegedly being prevented from travelling to parliamentary meetings due to scheduled hearings in the proceedings against her; given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of ms jane collins.
‒ jane collins sought the defence of her privileges and immunities in the context of a civil action brought against her before the queen's bench division of the high court in london. the slander and defamation complaint concerns allegations made by jane collins during a party conference. the european parliament therefore decides not to defend jane collins' privileges and immunities.
‒ this report concerns the request for defence of parliamentary immunity by jane collins mep, concerning a complaint against her which has given rise to a legal action in the united kingdom seeking compensation for aggravated damages caused by an alleged libel and slander which she uttered live on the bbc parliamentary television channel. on the basis of the report and the proposal for a decision submitted by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, with which i agree, the conditions for defending her parliamentary immunity are not met, particularly with regard to articles 7, 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, which means that the member concerned has not been prevented, as she claims, from travelling to parliamentary meetings, has not made, with obvious and direct connection, the alleged statements in the course of her parliamentary duties, and does not enjoy immunity from the proceedings against her as a member of the united kingdom parliament and therefore as a member of the european parliament, so that, in view of the foregoing, i voted in favour of this report, which concludes that her parliamentary immunity must be defended.
‒ parliamentary immunity is intended to guarantee the right to freedom of expression enjoyed in principle by members of the european parliament. however, this right does not mean that they may defame, slander, incite hatred or make defamatory allegations. the complaint in question is one of slander and defamation and concerns allegations made by jane collins during a party conference. since statements made by members of the european parliament outside the premises of the european parliament cannot be considered as being made in the exercise of their duties, we support the decision not to uphold the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
‒ mario borghezio has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the criminal case pending before the court of milan. according to the prosecutor's indictment, deputy borghezio has advocated ideas based on superiority and racial or ethnic hatred during a radio program, conduct that is punishable under italian law. article 8 of protocol no 7 states that 'members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties'. during the radio programme in question, mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and competence of a new member of the italian government, namely the new minister for integration. they were opinions expressed regarding the national political situation. these are deplorable statements as far as the person who utters them is concerned which have no direct and obvious connection with his parliamentary activities. we agree to waive immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, during a radio programme, mr mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and competence of a new member of the italian government, namely the new minister for integration. the statements allegedly made exceed the tone generally used in a political debate and, moreover, are of a nature profoundly contrary to the parliamentary character. the statements are contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and therefore cannot be considered to have been made in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of mario borghezio's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of this report, since the offence in question is in no way connected with the performance of the duties of a member of parliament, since it has no direct and obvious link with his parliamentary activities. i agree with the rapporteur in that i regret that the milan court, contrary to the case law of the court of justice on this matter, has refused to stay the proceedings against mr borghezio.
‒ mario borghezio has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the criminal case pending before the court of milan. during the radio programme in question, mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and powers of a new member of the italian government, namely the new minister for integration. opinions were expressed regarding the national political situation, which included the advocacy of ideas of racial superiority, the advocacy of racial or ethnic hatred, the conscious and free dissemination of racist and xenophobic views, and the promotion of discrimination. these statements have no direct and obvious connection with your parliamentary activities. they are also statements contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the committee's assessment, which we are following, does not support the immunity, because it concludes that the statements made cannot be considered to have been made in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. we do not agree with the criticism in the report to the milan court that, under community law, the case should have been suspended, because we believe that it is a sovereign body which should not be subject to any decision of the european court of justice, a supranational body which we do not recognise. we voted in favour.
‒ the italian public prosecutor's office has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio, member of the european parliament, in the context of the opening of an investigation procedure concerning an alleged offence. the action is brought on the basis of a speech he gave on a radio programme in which he defended ideas based on racial hatred and racial superiority. given that the judicial procedure does not concern opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that there is no reason to believe that the intention underlying the judicial action is to prejudice the political activity of the member, this request, which i voted in favour of, decides to waive the immunity of mario borghezio.
‒ an italian court has requested the waiver of mario borghezio's parliamentary immunity for allegedly making statements of 'hate speech'. hate speech violates european principles and values. the european parliament shall decide whether to refuse to grant parliamentary immunity.
‒ this report concerns the request for defence of parliamentary immunity requested by mario borghezio mep following a criminal action brought against him before the court of milan for advocating ideas based on superiority and racial hatred during a radio programme, which is likely to constitute a crime, punishable under italian law. in view of the content of the report, the statements made by the mep concern allegedly discriminatory opinions, contrary to what should constitute the parliamentary spirit and to what is enshrined in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and cannot be considered to have been made in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. in view of the foregoing, i do not think that the maintenance of his parliamentary immunity is justifiable in this particular case, although i should regret the failure of the milan court to suspend the proceedings against the member, contrary to the established case law of the court of justice on this matter, hoping that this is an isolated case and will not be repeated in the future.
‒ parliamentary immunity is intended to guarantee the right to freedom of expression enjoyed in principle by members of the european parliament. however, this right does not mean that they may defame, slander, incite hatred or make defamatory allegations. the complaint in question relates to the fact that mr borghezio defended ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority and hatred during a radio programme. since statements made by members of the european parliament outside the premises of the european parliament cannot be considered as being made in the exercise of their duties, we support the decision not to uphold the privileges and immunities of mr borghezio.
‒ the objective of this report is to amend regulation no 91/2003 with a view to updating, simplifying and optimising the existing regulatory framework for european rail transport statistics. i support this recommendation for second reading because the creation of a genuine european internal market in transport is fundamental to the revitalization of the railway sector which will help to make rail freight and passenger services more competitive and attractive and to increase its annual transport share. to develop and monitor the common transport policy, the european commission needs detailed statistical data on rail freight and passenger transport. two memoranda of understanding were signed to this end: one between eurostat and the european commission and the other between eurostat and the european railway agency. these two memoranda are important for optimising the use of existing information and reducing the administrative burden, and also meet the requirements of the co-legislators as regards the better use of rail transport statistics. these statistics will enable all categories of users to have easy and reliable access to data on the progress of european policies in the rail sector.
‒ the european parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to include data on infrastructure, in particular on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), because it considered it imperative to have a clear vision of the development of this system in the european union, given that the european union has spent millions of euros in financing this type of infrastructure without any concrete result, so far, in terms of the operability of the system across europe, due to irregular deployment and delays. parliament also decided that eurostat should provide statistical data on barrier-free stations accessible to people with reduced mobility and to people with disabilities, and on the use of crossborder railway infrastructure. parliament believes it is of the utmost importance that eu citizens have easy access - as a one-stop shop - to data relating to the implementation of eu policies. i voted in favour.
‒ this is an essentially technical text (although it cannot be isolated from a given context and policy options) on the communication of information on rail transport by member states to the commission, as regards goods, passengers and accidents, allowing a supranational analysis of the sector also in comparison with other means of transport and making the european rail system operational, following the 4th railway package. recognising that the exchange of statistical information could help the development of rail systems and that, when issues such as privacy are assured, it is an acceptable (or even desirable) issue, the context in which it is proposed here deserves our repudiation, with successive railway packages being the main instrument of eu policy that has promoted the privatisation and total disorganisation of the companies responsible for rail transport; that has promoted the deregulation of labour and increased labour exploitation in the sector; that has resulted in the increase of user charges and the degradation of infrastructure and reduced rail safety. the document contains references which are in line with this policy and the centralising options underlying it, such as the strengthening of the role and action of the european railway agency in the field of safety.
‒ the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal market by promoting common policies that encourage a high level of competitiveness and the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities. the creation of a genuine internal market is essential for the revitalisation of the railway sector and will contribute to making rail freight and passenger services more competitive and attractive and increasing their modal share of transport. the objective of this proposal is therefore to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 in order to update, simplify and optimise the existing regulatory framework for european rail transport statistics and to bring that regulation into line with the new institutional context. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ at first reading, the european parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to include infrastructure data, in particular on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms). it also decided that eurostat should provide statistical data on barrier-free stations accessible to persons with reduced mobility and persons with disabilities, and on the use of cross-border railway infrastructure, and, as regards accidents, parliament supported the idea that statistics on railway accidents should be kept within the scope of the regulation and should cover accidents and incidents involving the transport of dangerous goods and accidents at level crossings. i am in favour of enhanced cooperation between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency to ensure that statistical data relating to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and that processes are more efficient and cost-effective to avoid duplication of work.
‒ this is a mainly technical text, reporting on rail transport information by member states to the commission, with regard to goods, passengers and accidents, allowing a supranational analysis of the sector also in comparison with other means of transport and making the european rail system operational, following the 4th railway package. we recognise that the exchange of statistical information can help the development of railway systems, provided that issues such as privacy are ensured. what concerns us is the context of this proposal, which deserves our condemnation as one of the pillars of eu policy which has promoted the privatisation and total disorganisation of the companies responsible for rail transport; which has promoted the deregulation of labour and the increase of labour exploitation in the sector; which has resulted in the increase of user charges and the degradation of infrastructure and reduced rail safety.
in writing. this proposal provides that the scope of regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics should be extended in order to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework. the european parliament and the council agreed that the most efficient and cost-effective way to avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency is to strengthen cooperation between these institutions and to ensure that statistical data relating to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders. this was possible after the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission (27-04-2016) and between eurostat and afe (12-05-2016). these mous are important tools for optimising the use of existing information and reducing administrative burden. statistics on rail transport are necessary for the commission to monitor and develop a common transport policy and to design regional and trans-european network policies. i support this proposal.
‒ i voted in favour, considering that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to include data on infrastructure, in particular on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). parliament stressed that it was imperative to have a clear vision of the development of ertms in the european union, given that the union had spent millions of euros in financing this type of infrastructure without any concrete results so far in terms of the system's operability throughout europe, due to irregular deployment and delays. the council and parliament recognised that the most efficient and cost-effective way to avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency is to strengthen cooperation between these institutions and to ensure that statistical data relating to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders.
the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the european parliament stressed that it was imperative to have a clear vision of the development of ertms in the european union, given that the union has spent millions of euros in funding this type of infrastructure without any concrete results so far in terms of the operability of the system across europe, due to irregular deployment and delays. the ep believes it is of the utmost importance that eu citizens have easy access - as a one-stop shop - to data relating to the implementation of eu policies.
‒ the european parliament decided at first reading that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to include data on infrastructure, in particular on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). it is a system in which a great deal of money has been invested and which has so far produced no tangible results, due to delays and irregularities in its implementation, but which is considered to be of the utmost importance for eu citizens to have fast, easy and reliable access to data relating to the implementation of european policies. to this end, there should be greater cooperation and closer methodological coherence between eurostat and the european railway agency (era) on accident data in other modes of transport, which was made possible by the signing of two memoranda of understanding (between eurostat and the european commission and eurostat and the easa) which allowed an agreement to be reached on simplifying the regulation, meeting the objectives proposed by the co-legislators following two informal trilogues, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ this is a mainly technical text, reporting on rail transport information by member states to the commission, with regard to goods, passengers and accidents, allowing a supranational analysis of the sector also in comparison with other means of transport and making the european rail system operational, following the 4th railway package. we recognise that the exchange of statistical information can help the development of railway systems, provided that issues such as privacy are ensured. what concerns us is the context of this proposal, which deserves our condemnation as one of the pillars of eu policy which has promoted the privatisation and total disorganisation of the companies responsible for rail transport; which has promoted the deregulation of labour and the increase of labour exploitation in the sector; which has resulted in the increase of user charges and the degradation of infrastructure and the reduction of railway safety.
‒ the role of the inland waterway transport sector needs to be strengthened and to this end the european union and the member states need reliable statistics to develop appropriate specific policies. i support the intention to extend the scope of this regulation to passenger transport. this will put the sector on a par with road, air and sea transport, where statistics are already collected for both goods and passengers. i believe that the joint development of methodologies between the eu and the member states for the collection of statistical data is a positive thing, as is the conduct of voluntary pilot studies attesting to the effectiveness of these methodologies. the carrying out of these studies, which are part of cross-border transport, pursues an important objective of diversification of statistical instruments. after presenting the results of the pilot studies, i believe that the debate should be resumed in line with what is proposed. on the political front, i would remind you that this regulation is one of the first legislative acts to be included in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. it is, in my view, a set of acts which should serve to assess the appropriateness of this agreement in the future. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
‒ the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight transport to passenger transport, considering that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland waterway transport in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. in a first phase, the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway. in a second phase, the commission will launch voluntary pilot studies to test the feasibility of the new data collection. finally, the commission will present the results of these studies to parliament and the council and will consider submitting a proposal for the revision of the regulation. i voted in favour.
‒ this is a largely technical text (though not likely to be isolated from a given political context) on the communication of information relating to the transport of goods by inland waterways. it is recognised that the exchange of statistical information may be important to ensure the development of this transport route, while the need for operators to collect and provide information does not become a burden. this transport route is, in some contexts, strategic and needs to be promoted. the collection and provision (and in some cases the need for centralisation) of statistical data and information may be important for this. however, the development context is embedded in the eu's transport strategies, which aim at liberalising transport and imposing management models to the different realities. even in a context where the european commission's powers have been limited by the european parliament, concerns arise from the fundamental policy choices that shape the eu's approach to these issues.
in writing. ‒ in the context of aligning regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 6 september 2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway with the new rules of the tfeu, the implementing powers currently conferred on the commission by that regulation should be safeguarded by empowering the commission to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ at first reading, the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway to passenger transport. parliament also supported aligning the regulation with the provisions of the treaty (articles 290 and 291) as regards the powers delegated and the implementing powers conferred on the commission. however, parliament has limited and better defined the powers conferred on the commission. i am in favour of integrating statistics on passenger transport data into the framework of the regulation. i would also stress that this regulation is one of the first legislative acts to implement the provisions on delegated acts, in line with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i therefore vote in favour of this recommendation.
‒ this is a mainly technical text, communicating information on the transport of goods by inland waterways. this transport route is, in some contexts, strategic and needs to be promoted. the centralisation of data and statistical information may be important for this. however, the development context is embedded in the eu's transport strategies, which aim at liberalising transport and imposing management models to the different realities. even in a context where the commission's powers have been limited by parliament, it is understood that some caution should be exercised.
‒ the extension of the scope of the current regulation is intended to put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with road, air and sea transport, sectors for which statistical data are collected for both goods and passengers. the first steps towards the integration of passenger transport statistics into the regulation were taken by means of a methodology for compiling statistics, such as the launch of voluntary pilot studies to test the feasibility of the new data collection. i believe that for a policy to succeed in strengthening the role of inland navigation in the transport sector, it must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the extension of the scope of the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway to passenger transport. a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the current regulation would put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with road, air and maritime transport, sectors for which statistical data are collected for both goods and passengers. in a first phase, the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway. in a second phase, the commission will launch voluntary pilot studies to test the feasibility of the new data collection. finally, the commission will present the results of these studies to parliament and the council and will consider submitting a proposal for the revision of the regulation. the financing of these pilot projects should be borne by the eu budget.
‒ at first reading, the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway to passenger transport. the european parliament considers that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the current regulation will put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with road, air and maritime transport, sectors for which statistical data are collected for both goods and passengers. parliament and the council have decided by common accord to consider passenger transport by inland waterway within the scope of this regulation. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with it.
‒ this is a mainly technical text, communicating information on the transport of goods by inland waterways. this transport route is, in some contexts, strategic and needs to be promoted. the centralisation of data and statistical information may be important for this. however, the development context is embedded in the eu's transport strategies, which aim at liberalising transport and imposing management models to the different realities. even in a context where the commission's powers have been limited by parliament, it is understood that some caution should be exercised.
in writing. ‒ although customs legislation is fully harmonised and is the exclusive competence of the union, the imposition of penalties for infringements is within the framework of the national law of the member states, with 28 different sets of legal rules and different administrative traditions, i.e. member states may impose the penalties they deem appropriate for infringements of certain obligations arising from the union's harmonised customs legislation. the new directive aims to harmonise this implementation framework so that there is an integrated approach to the enforcement of customs rules, which is also a consequence of the external obligations to which the eu is bound under the general agreement on customs tariffs. i support the kallas report, which i believe has achieved a balanced approach in this matter, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, pursuing a logic of proportionality of sanctions, avoiding the criterion based on the value of goods. this will ensure greater legal certainty and transparency for operators, reduce the risk of market distortion and ensure greater convergence in the member states' sanctioning systems.
‒ although the customs union is regarded as one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same but, when these rules are broken, the penalties applied vary considerably. if differences between member states' sanctioning systems persist, this could potentially mean that an undertaking may lose the status of authorised economic operator in a particular country while another undertaking operating in another member state will not lose that status for the same infringement. this report therefore clarifies the scope of the directive to ensure that only infringements committed by negligence or intentionally constitute infringements, thus removing the element of strict liability that does not require a degree of fault.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. at present, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that although the rules are the same, the penalties applied as a result of infringement of the rules vary between member states. this may mean that an undertaking may lose its status as an authorised economic operator in a particular country while another undertaking operating in another member state will not lose its status for the same infringement. our position is inseparable from the position we took earlier in the assembly of the republic in the process of scrutiny and verification of the principle of subsidiarity by the national parliaments. we consider that the proposal violates the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which is why we voted against it.
‒ although the customs union is regarded as one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that the rules are the same but, when these rules are broken, the penalties applied vary considerably. convergence between sanctioning systems is necessary for the eu to be able to meet its external obligations under the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ although customs legislation is harmonised and integrated within the european union's competences, the power to adopt legislative measures with regard to customs sanctions and infringements remains with the member states. i believe that the appropriate legal basis for the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for infringements of customs legislation and related penalties should be articles 33 and 114 tfeu. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. at present, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. this means that although the rules are the same, the penalties applied as a result of infringement of the rules vary between member states. this may mean that an undertaking may lose its status as an authorised economic operator in a particular country while another undertaking operating in another member state will not lose its status for the same infringement. the report supports the commission's position, which is contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. moreover, in matters of criminal law, there is an explicit interference with the sovereignty of the portuguese state, enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic. i therefore vote against.
in the light of the commission's proposal for a directive published on 13 december, the amendment of the union legal framework on infringements of customs legislation and the penalties for those infringements is under discussion. although the customs union is considered to be a major pillar of the single market and one of the foundations of the european union (eu), there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, including sanctions. since the customs union and trade policy are exclusive competences of the eu, only the eu can develop a common approach to the application of customs legislation. the differences in the level of sanctions create a lack of mutual trust between administrations and compromise the level playing field for eu economic operators. they have been regarded by the court of justice as measures having an effect equivalent to equitable restrictions. for the reasons i have mentioned, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the idea that it is imperative that in identical cases of infringement of customs rules the penalties should also be identical. the differences between the sanctioning systems of the member states create a lack of mutual trust between administrations, whereas trust and cooperation between customs authorities is central to the good management of the customs union and to the protection of the eu's financial interests. they also compromise the level playing field for economic operators in the european union. in order to ensure that penalties are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, it is appropriate to leave sufficient scope for the customs authorities to assess the relevant circumstances and, on that basis, to decide on the most appropriate penalty, as this has proven to be an effective means of reducing non-compliance.
in writing. ‒ mr president, although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the enforcement of customs legislation, in particular sanctions. this means that the rules are the same but, when these rules are broken, the penalties applied vary considerably. without an integrated approach, it is not possible for the customs administrations of the member states to act in unison, in particular given the significant differences between the sanctioning systems of the member states. these differences create a lack of mutual trust between administrations, whereas trust and cooperation between customs authorities is central to the good management of the customs union and to the protection of the eu's financial interests. they also compromise the level playing field for economic operators in the european union. if differences between the sanctioning systems of member states persist, this could mean that an undertaking may lose the status of authorised economic operator in a particular country while another undertaking operating in another member state will not lose that status for the same infringement.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive should be amended to include a new provision on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. this is an exclusive eu competence in trade matters, where the aim is to achieve better performance and efficiency of customs administrations while ensuring the protection of the union's financial interests. in this respect, i naturally supported a proposal whose main objective is to promote convergence between sanction systems in the customs field, so that the eu can also meet its external obligations under the gatt - general agreement on tariffs and trade. at the same time, this report also clarifies the scope of the directive, particularly as regards the definition, characterisation and degree of responsibility of penalties. this will make it possible to simplify and harmonise the system of sanctions and infringements in the customs field, making it more coherent, effective and credible across the member states.
‒ this proposal for a directive was published by the european commission in january 2013 and aims to establish a common legal framework for the treatment of customs sanctions, with a view to bridging the differences between the various legal regimes of the member states, and also aiming at strengthening common rules as regards the enforcement of customs legislation. we are against this under the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. the draft amending budget provides for an overall increase of eur 15.8 million for security matters in the european institutions. the special allocation for the european parliament (around eur 200 000) is largely used to recruit 35 additional security staff, which is an exception to the 5% reduction target. i welcome the increase of eur 3.5 million for the safety of european schools. however, i believe that the reinforcement of investment in security and the increase in the number of staff in this area must pursue an objective of means-efficiency and seek not to undermine the access of european citizens to the institutions. as far as the european parliament is concerned, i hope that this increase in staff will make it possible to receive guests and visitors more quickly, improve the accreditation system and ensure that citizens have wider access to the premises. i believe it is essential to ensure the safety of all those who work in or visit the european institutions and that the reinforcement of facilities must safeguard good working conditions and the reception of guests. i therefore support this report by mr josé manuel fernandes and mr gérard deprez.
‒ the recent terrorist attacks have forced the union institutions to review their security needs and identify, as early as 2016, the additional resources needed. the present proposal provides for an increase of eur 15.8 million in the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. this amendment will allow for the creation of 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff, which should be maintained in the 2017 budget and exempted from the 5% reduction target as they are for a new activity.
in writing. the report proposes to increase the budget for the security of the eu institutions. this reinforcement aims at improving infrastructure, enhancing it security, training and recruitment of staff. for the european parliament, on a proposal from the secretary-general and the bureau, 35 additional permanent posts are created for the recruitment of additional security staff, which should be maintained in the 2017 budget and exempted from the 5% staff reduction target as they correspond to a new activity. the european commission proposes to offset the eur 15.8 million increase in appropriations under title h5 by a reduction of the same amount under the iter heading. following the terrorist attacks in brussels, the competent authorities were invited to propose the internalisation of previously outsourced services. we have always advocated the internalisation of services, for reasons connected with workers' rights and the prevention of situations of exploitation and precariousness. during the debate in the committee on budgets, our group made it clear that it was against any armed individuals within the institutions. in addition, it advocated the internalisation of several other services (including, inter alia, interpreters, translators, it engineers).
in writing. ‒ this report affirms the need for the internalisation of eu services. the grounds for the measures recommended in this report are not, in my view, the most correct. however, the internalisation of services benefits workers more than outsourcing, by ensuring decent living conditions for them and by preventing well-known situations of exploitation and precariousness. i abstained.
in the wake of the attacks in paris in november 2015 and brussels in march 2016, all institutions have undertaken a review of their short and medium-term security needs. the draft budget for 2017 includes supplementary security-related items for almost all institutions. however, in some cases, the need to accelerate the strengthening of security measures and facilities requires additional resources already in 2016. this draft amending budget (db) no 3 for the financial year 2016 proposes to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the recent terrorist attacks, the commission has decided to review the security needs of the european institutions and to identify the additional resources needed as early as 2016. i support the proposal to increase the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service by eur 15.8 million, as well as the proposal to create 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new security officers for the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase by eur 15,8 million the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. it aims to create 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff. this amending budget aims to strengthen the eu's security policy by instilling fear and completely devaluing the need to attack the problems from the ground up. if the problems in the middle east are solved, if aid to terrorist groups and the criminal regime in israel is stopped, then peace will certainly return to the european continent with the end of the bombings.
‒ the recent terrorist attacks have forced the union institutions to review their security needs and to discuss and identify the additional resources needed. draft amending budget no 3/2016 provides for additional resources in the field of security for the following institutions: european schools, european parliament, european commission, european court of justice, european court of auditors, european economic and social committee, committee of the regions and european external action service. i agree that the greatest reinforcement is to be found in european schools, since the education and training of young europeans cannot be affected by a lack of security. as regards the increase in security funding in the european parliament, which will be aimed at hiring 35 new permanent staff, i believe that this is a responsible and appropriate increase and will ensure greater security not only for the many staff of this institution but also for the thousands of visitors who pass through it every month. i wholeheartedly support the report by mr josé manuel fernandes and mr gérard deprez.
in the light of the recent terrorist attacks, the eu institutions have been forced to review their security needs and identify, as early as 2016, the additional resources needed to combat terrorism. one of the proposals is to increase by eur 15.8 million the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. it aims to create 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff, considering that these posts should be maintained in the budget for 2017 and exempted from the 5% reduction target as they are for a new activity.
‒ the recent terrorist attacks have forced the union institutions to review their security needs and identify, as early as 2016, the additional resources needed. draft amending budget no 3/2016 therefore proposes to increase by eur 15,8 million the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. it also aims to create 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff. the european parliament's report approves the council's position on draft amending budget no 3/2016.
‒ the recent terrorist attacks have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs and, consequently, to identify the additional resources needed to ensure that all conditions (logistical, material, human, budgetary or other) are met in relation to this important condition. draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase by eur 15,8 million the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. in addition, this report provides for the creation of 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff (whereas these posts should be maintained in the budget for 2017 and exempted from the 5% reduction target). as this is a matter of safeguarding the safety of all staff (and visitors) of the european institutions and ensuring the proper functioning and prevailing environment of the institutions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2016 proposes to increase by eur 15,8 million the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. it aims to create 35 more permanent posts for the recruitment of new european parliament security staff. this amending budget aims to strengthen the eu's security policy by instilling fear and completely devaluing the need to attack the problems from the ground up. if the problems in the middle east are solved, if aid to terrorist groups and the criminal regime in israel is stopped, then peace will certainly return to the european continent with the end of the bombings.
‒ the nuclear agreement with iran was a breath of fresh air in relations between the west and this country, which is so important from a geostrategic and geopolitical point of view. it is undoubtedly a turning point in european diplomacy and a major contribution to the stabilization of the region. as important as this agreement is the need to consolidate a frank dialogue and establish bilateral relations based on mutual trust, which can lay the foundations for long-term cooperation. the opening of an eu delegation in tehran will be a key element in this process. this report sets out important guidelines to achieve these objectives, while reiterating the european union's firm opposition to the death penalty, which is why i support it.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation in the middle east, the european union calls on the government of the islamic republic of iran to take all necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in the middle east is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear weapons. i am firmly opposed to the death penalty, either in absolute terms or in respect of its specific application to persons under the age of 18. i believe in the relevance of establishing an eu delegation in tehran as a way of improving the perception of the iranian people about the eu and increasing sectoral cooperation. on the economic front, despite the size of the iranian market, we cannot ignore the urgency of combating the flow of funding to terrorist organisations, the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of workers (essential for supporting the country's accession to the wto) or the need to open up the internet. i would remind you that opportunities in the field of energy must take environmental concerns into account. i agree with the resolution as a whole, but i would have liked it to be stronger in defence of fundamental rights, so i abstained in the final vote.
‒ i acknowledge that the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme in 2015 was a historic milestone in the country's relationship with the west. however, there is still a great deal to be done in that country, particularly in matters relating to the death penalty, military stability in the region, rights, freedoms and guarantees. the steps taken so far are not enough for the eu to deepen its commercial and political ties with iran. the resolution of the humanitarian catastrophes and the conflicts which are still raging in that region is an essential condition for progress in negotiations and conversions. i therefore vote against.
‒ the report deals with relations between the eu and iran after the nuclear agreement. about a year ago, iran signed an agreement on its nuclear programme with six powers (the united states, france, britain, russia, china and germany) that allowed the lifting of heavy sanctions. the u.s. maintains the blockade. iran is a country of enormous geostrategic importance. it has influence in the middle east and the gulf region. it is the second largest economy in the middle east and north africa. it has the second largest gas reserves in the world and the fourth largest oil reserves. it also has enormous potential for the exploitation of solar energy, interests which move the eu. although we support the report on the need to establish relations, we distance ourselves from the view of external interference and interference to which the report seeks to condition these relations: structural, judicial and democratic reforms. a vision that aims to feed regime change from the outside, which aims not at the interests and legitimate aspirations of the iranian people, but at fulfilling the eu's economic and political objectives to destabilize and control the middle east. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the region. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), also known as the iran nuclear deal, was a remarkable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and european diplomacy in particular, and should allow not only a substantial improvement in eu-iran relations, but also the promotion of stability throughout the region. all parties now have a responsibility to ensure its full and strict application. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i agree with the view that the council's decision to lift all nuclear-related sanctions imposed on the islamic republic of iran, as a result of the implementation of the commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action, will allow relations with iran to be re-established and will create opportunities and advantages by providing the possibility of re-opening the iranian market to european companies. the eu's various statements to iran focused on trade and economic ties. i believe that trade and access to regulated global trade is a potential way of breaking iran's isolation and can be an important instrument for strengthening political dialogue and stimulating cooperation between countries in the region with a view to increasing regional development, employment and stability throughout the region. it is important to stress that iran needs inclusive growth while maintaining gender balance. it is vital to pay particular attention to the situation of women in iran, as they are subject to legal discrimination, as well as to european women travelling to iran, who may be dissuaded from travelling to iran due to the obligation to wear religious symbols.
‒ the report deals with relations between the eu and iran after the nuclear agreement. about a year ago, iran signed an agreement on its nuclear programme with six powers (the united states, france, britain, russia, china and germany) that allowed the lifting of heavy sanctions. the u.s. maintains the blockade. iran is a country of enormous geostrategic importance. it has influence in the middle east and the gulf region. it is the second largest economy in the middle east and north africa. it has the second largest gas reserves in the world and the fourth largest oil reserves. it also has enormous potential for the exploitation of solar energy, interests which move the eu. although we support the report on the need to establish relations, we distance ourselves from the view of external interference and interference to which the report seeks to condition these relations: structural, judicial and democratic reforms. a vision that aims to feed regime change from the outside, which aims not at the interests and legitimate aspirations of the iranian people, but at fulfilling the eu's economic and political objectives to destabilize and control the middle east. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the region. we voted against it.
‒ i believe that despite iran's revolutionary background and its character as an islamic republic, as well as the profound differences in the political and institutional system between iran and the eu, these should not constitute an obstacle to openness and dialogue on different issues. the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), also known as the iran nuclear deal, is a remarkable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and european diplomacy in particular. it should not only allow for a substantial improvement in relations between the eu and iran, but also promote stability throughout the region. i would stress that all parties now have a responsibility to ensure the full and strict application of the pacg, and that failure by iran to implement it will lead to the re-imposition of the sanctions that have been lifted. the development of eu-iran relations should continue, with much room for understanding and cooperation in matters such as political dialogue, economic issues, sectoral cooperation and regional security. in the context of socioeconomic issues, the rule of law, democracy and human rights, i must stress the importance of ending the use of the death penalty. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), also known as the iran nuclear deal, was a remarkable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and european diplomacy in particular, and should allow not only a substantial improvement in relations between the eu and iran, but also the promotion of stability throughout the region, with all parties now having the responsibility to ensure its full and strict implementation. eu-iran relations should be developed through a multi-level dialogue combining political, diplomatic, economic, academic, technical and people-to-people contacts, and including civil society actors, ngos and human rights defenders. an enlargement of eu-iran relations to the mutual benefit of both parties, based on a realistic assessment of common interests and differences, and with a view to encouraging a gradual expansion of cooperation in a climate of confidence building, above all to the benefit of the peoples of iran and the eu.
‒ there is no doubt that this agreement with iran was a landmark event for multilateral diplomacy, and for european diplomacy in particular, and should represent a substantial improvement in eu-iran relations and in the promotion of stability throughout the region. the council's decision to lift sanctions against iran following this agreement will create opportunities and benefits for both sides by reopening the iranian market to european business and investment. however, i cannot fail to mention that this is also a sign of openness and an opportunity for iran to make clear and substantial progress on respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and gender equality. it is frightening the number of iranian citizens executed in iran, many of them minors. the eu must be uncompromising in respecting human rights, including in its trade agreements.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the agreement to include the countries of the former soviet union and the united states. the rapporteur/shadow rapporteurs had a difficult task in obtaining a text that was at least consensual and could command the maximum support from meps. i congratulate them on the 456 votes in favour. i had the opportunity to speak in the plenary and to propose 10 amendments to the report which i saw inserted in the final text. i also believe that a fairly balanced text has been reached, in accordance with the principle of 'change through rapprochement', which seems to me to be the most effective way of achieving political stabilization in a region marked by the existence of numerous conflicts which are trying to persist, causing a high level of suffering to various peoples in this vast territory. although i believe that change is easier, faster and more solidly achieved through rapprochement and not through blind conditionality, i believe that we must not compromise on the principles we believe in, and i therefore insist, once again, on calling on iran to demonstrate its commitment to this agreement by immediately imposing a moratorium on the execution of death sentences in its country.
‒ about a year ago, iran signed an agreement on the iranian nuclear programme with six other powers (the us, france, britain, russia, china, germany). this agreement, known as the jcpoa, allowed the lifting of sanctions imposed by the us and the european union. these sanctions have had negative impacts on the economy and life of this country. it should also be noted that iran has already declared at the united nations that it is not benefiting in any way from the lifting of sanctions and that the united states has not yet complied with the agreement. we are in favour of the normalisation of diplomatic relations with iran on the basis of mutual respect for the sovereignty of states. we are not at all in favour of any paranoid and security-oriented drift towards iran which only serves to prevent any effort to stabilise the region.
‒ the fight against organised crime has been a priority for the european union from the very beginning. it is a necessary part of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, which has its origins in the schengen agreement and in free movement. it is also clear that, particularly in the last 15 years, organised crime has taken on a new dimension, among other things, it has become more cross-border, it makes greater use of new technologies. this resolution, which i support and vote in favour of, is the result of the work that parliament has been doing in this area since 2011. new problems are being identified, for example in the area of misuse of funds, but also new avenues, particularly in the area of environmental crime.
‒ the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering must be a priority for the eu, which, to be effective, must have adequate financial resources and qualified staff. the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering should be a political priority of the union institutions and, for this reason, police and judicial cooperation between member states is essential. i voted in favour.
‒ this is a report on the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and trafficking in human beings and migrants. in general terms, this report considers that police and judicial cooperation between member states should be a political priority for the eu. while we agree that it is imperative to combat the types of crime mentioned above, we disagree in substance with the approach adopted in the report and the solutions proposed, without prejudice to specific specific measures which may be appropriate. the report omits something that would be unexpected - the intimate relationship between the capitalist system, the policies that support it and the whole of the crime phenomena mentioned. the alternative is to further integrate the judiciary and police, areas that are at the heart of the sovereignty and independence of states, with further steps to cut off parts of that sovereignty, in order to concentrate power in the supranational structures of the eu, controlled by the great powers and serving reactionary and backward agendas that restrict rights, freedoms and guarantees.
‒ this report follows the resolution adopted in october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the report provides recommendations on measures and initiatives to be taken in the areas of transparency, environmental aspects of corruption, better communication between judicial authorities, the need to address the exploitation of migrant labour, enhanced protection of witnesses and whistleblowers, as well as other relevant issues in this context. however, the establishment of mandatory rules so that people accused of a crime or public offence cannot run for public office after serving their sentence is a pernicious argument. in that case, people like nelson mandela could never come to power. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ a stronger eu commitment is required to achieve better results in the fight against corruption. the development of a genuine priority prevention strategy to combat corruption requires the intensification of police and judicial cooperation through the exchange of information between national authorities, greater attention to public procurement and public-private partnerships, whether by combating corruption in sport, criminalising the manipulation of sporting events and strengthening the fight against illegal betting in the field of sporting competitions; regulation of lobbying and its relationship with official bodies; awareness of the availability of new tools for organised crime; the emergence of new phenomena of organised crime, particularly of an economic nature, using cross-border associations, which requires the provision of the technological, logistical, technical and financial means necessary to combat them in an articulated manner between member states. it is now up to the european commission to develop a legislative proposal in line with the european parliament's strong call to fight corruption and organised crime. i voted in favour.
‒ organized crime has a transnational dimension and covers various types of criminal activity, such as drug trafficking, smuggling of migrants, money laundering and trafficking in counterfeit goods, firearms, wildlife and cultural goods. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development recognises the need to combat corruption in all its forms and calls on member states to eliminate illicit financial flows, bribery and corruption, and to establish effective, accountable and transparent institutions. i believe that the eu must impose strong political will in the fight against tax evasion and tax planning, in accordance with the principle of policy coherence for development, enshrined in article 208 tfeu. it is essential that developing countries strengthen transparency and accountability in resource contracts, audits and financial reporting of companies, as well as in the collection and allocation of revenues, as part of their anti-corruption agenda. the eu should step up its assistance to resource-rich countries in implementing the principles of the extractive industries transparency initiative.
in writing. ‒ the report is based on fair values such as the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and organised crime and trafficking in human beings and migrants. however, it transforms police and judicial cooperation between member states into a deepening of a federalist and security vision, pursuing the policies of the european union in this field. the call for increased specialisation of europol and greater use of agencies such as eurojust, cepol and the european judicial training network is therefore justified. the pnr register, which we rejected and voted against, is valid, as is the enhancement and increased capacity of the european public prosecutor's office, another supranational instrument which we do not follow, in that it contributes to the loss of the sovereignty of the member states in the field of justice. i therefore vote against.
in writing. on 25 october 2011, the european parliament (ep) adopted a report on organised crime, following which a special committee was set up to analyse organised crime in europe. the outcome of that special committee was a report which was adopted by the ep in october 2013 and which is followed up by this report. organised crime is a global threat and therefore requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states. it is therefore necessary for all member states to ensure the proper transposition of the provisions in force, to monitor their application and to assess their effectiveness. the rapporteur notes that the phenomena of organised crime, corruption and money laundering often have a cross-border dimension, and that more effective police and judicial cooperation is therefore needed at european level. corruption, in particular in the field of public procurement and public-private partnerships, provides privileged channels for organised crime to infiltrate the legal economy. i am voting in favour because i believe that the current political cycle must include among its priorities the fight against money laundering, corruption and human trafficking.
‒ i voted in favour, as there is still no full awareness of the complexity of the phenomenon of organised crime and the danger of criminal organisations infiltrating the social, economic, business, political and institutional fabric of the member states. organised criminal groups have shown a tendency and a great facility to diversify their activities, adapting to different territorial, economic and social contexts, and taking advantage of their weaknesses and vulnerabilities, operating simultaneously in different markets and exploiting the disparity between the legislative provisions of the legal systems of the member states to flourish their activities and maximise profits. organised crime, corruption and money laundering pose serious threats to the eu economy, significantly reducing tax revenues for member states and the eu as a whole, as well as to the reliability of eu-funded projects, as criminal organisations operate in a number of sectors, many of which are subject to government control.
‒ this resolution reiterates the ideas and recommendations set out in its resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it reiterated its call for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which, in order to be effective, must have adequate financial resources and qualified staff. expresses its wish to focus its attention on specific areas requiring priority action in the current context: - ensuring the proper transposition of the existing provisions, monitoring their application and evaluating their effectiveness; - priorities and operational framework for the fight against organised crime and corruption; - a more robust legislative framework; - more effective police and judicial cooperation at european level; - to seize the assets of criminal organisations and to encourage their reuse for social purposes; - preventing the infiltration of organised crime and corruption into the legal economy; - the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office; - specific areas of intervention (counterfeiting, drug trafficking, tax havens, crimes against the environment, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism).
‒ this own-initiative report by mrs laura ferrara concerns the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the resolution of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. we all know that corruption and organised crime are universal and constitute a global threat to the security of citizens, territories and the social, economic, political and institutional fabric of different countries, requiring a concerted response by the eu and the member states. it is against this backdrop of fragility that i strongly support the proposals in this report on what should be the eu's priorities and the operational framework for the fight against organised crime and corruption, as well as for the implementation of a more robust and effective legislative framework and more competent and effective police and judicial cooperation at european level. a word of appreciation for the idea of seizing the assets of criminal organisations and encouraging their reuse for social purposes, as well as for the idea of creating a european public prosecutor's office independent of national governments and european institutions.
‒ this is a report on the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and organised crime and trafficking in human beings and migrants. in general terms, this report considers that police and judicial cooperation between member states should be a political priority for the european union. we agree with the principle that greater cooperation between states is needed to combat these phenomena, but we do not share the trend which, on the one hand, centralises the fight against them in supranational structures and, on the other, does not call into question the effects of the policies of liberalization in progress, particularly at the level of the financial system and the capital market.
‒ the european union is committed to solidarity with all those who are forced to leave their country by armed conflict, political persecution, human rights violations and extreme poverty. the rights of migrants, whether in transit or in destination, must be respected. i share the concern about the situation of stateless people and the need for greater efficiency in their identification and protection. i believe that the mechanisms for granting asylum should be more rapid, more effective and more concerted. in this respect, i am in favour of sharing good practice between national administrations, training of officials and a balanced system of information exchange. member states should comply with international law obligations and european commitments in this area. i share the concern for specific segments such as women and children. the fight against all forms of violence (especially sexual violence) must be a priority, as must the fight against human trafficking and slavery. i believe that the issue of migration should be taken into account in the eu's external policy, in particular in its neighbourhood policy, in eu-acp relations and in development aid. i therefore support this report.
‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, which has its origins in a variety of causes, such as economic conditions, social and political conditions, working conditions, situations of violence, the security situation, the gradual degradation of the environment and the worsening of natural disasters. today, some 244 million people are considered international migrants. i therefore support taking measures to combat networks of smuggling of migrants, creating legal and safe pathways, including through humanitarian corridors, for people seeking international protection, establishing permanent and mandatory resettlement programmes and granting humanitarian visas to people fleeing conflict zones, improving the functioning of 'registration centres' and entry points at the union's external borders and creating effective tools for coordination, aligning information flows, data collection, cross-checking and analysis.
in writing. - the report addresses the issue of human rights violations in third countries, as is customary, since this is not something that is discussed in relation to the european union, and not because of the lack of such violations. the report contains positive elements. it refers to and urges the application of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. it calls for the implementation of the un global compact, processes under way within the un that we value. the general trend is to hold corporations more accountable for human rights violations. in the absence of a comprehensive approach to corporate accountability in terms of human rights, the report emphasises the moral responsibility that companies must have in the field of human rights; propose legislative and legal measures to protect victims and contribute to their redress; stresses the duty of states to respect human rights and of companies established in european territory to respect human rights; it shall take account of the legislative frameworks that have already evolved in this field; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the set of kind recommendations will be based on the pious conviction, which the report is imbued with, that it is possible to humanize capitalism. this is its greatest limitation.
‒ this report is an important and necessary document for the safeguarding of the human rights of migrants, since human rights are inherent rights of all human beings without any distinction. the report calls on the member states to ratify all international human rights treaties and conventions and to implement the rules on migrants' rights, including the right to health, education and housing, as well as increased protection for unaccompanied children and young people. i voted yes.
‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, which has its origins in a number of causes, such as economic conditions (including changes in the distribution of wealth and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, working conditions, situations of violence, the security situation, the gradual degradation of the environment and the worsening of natural disasters. this phenomenon should be addressed in a coherent and balanced manner, in accordance with a global perspective that takes into account its human dimension, in particular its positive impact on demographic trends and economic development. member states should lead by example in ensuring the promotion and protection of the human rights of migrants, including within their own borders, so that they have credibility in debates on migration and human rights in third countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ article 13 of the united nations universal declaration of human rights enshrines migration as a human right. the international community should respect this provision, as well as any relevant international obligations relating to refugees and migrants, and to recognise the positive contribution of refugees and migrants to our societies, benefiting countries of destination, transit and origin, including developing countries. it is urgent to create mechanisms to address the human rights violations to which migrants are exposed, which are particularly serious in situations triggered by security challenges and natural disasters. i support the need for strong awareness-raising, especially in the countries of destination, to combat xenophobia and facilitate the social integration of migrants. i stress the importance of strengthening the rights of vulnerable groups such as women, children, lgbt people, people with disabilities and the elderly, who are particularly vulnerable to all kinds of risks, including violence, trafficking in human beings and abuse.
‒ the report addresses one of the problems that currently marks the crisis of capitalism and the crisis in and of the european union: the humanitarian crisis and the gross violations of rights on european soil. the report has a number of positive points, but it also reveals shortcomings and is compromised by a set of negative references which the right and social democrats would impose, although not to the extent they would like. the result of the vote is that. the causes of the problems and the direct and indirect responsibilities at their origin are omitted. the eu, with the us and nato, is responsible for destabilising the whole of the middle east and north africa, fuelling the extremist groups, which now, in the name of the fight against 'terrorism', claim to be fighting. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it welcomes the euronavfor med mission and its role in combating the smuggling of migrants and calls for these missions to be stepped up. we strongly disagree with this analysis because of the criminal reality it portrays, which is imbued with the eu's security vision. the positive elements contained in it and its origin justify abstention.
in writing. ‒ according to the united nations, some 244 million people are currently considered international migrants. migration should be seen as a global and multidimensional phenomenon, with a variety of causes at its origin, such as economic conditions (including changes in the distribution of wealth and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, working conditions, situations of violence and, of course, the security situation. i believe that this phenomenon must be dealt with in a coherent and balanced way, in accordance with a global perspective which takes account of its human dimension. i express my solidarity with people who are forced to leave their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and situations of extreme poverty. i also express my deep concern at the serious human rights violations to which many migrants are subject in the countries of transit or destination. however, i do not think that this report contains the most appropriate provisions to deal with this phenomenon. i therefore do not vote in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that the eu should show solidarity with people who are forced to leave their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and situations of extreme poverty, among other factors. the union and its member states should lead by example in ensuring the promotion and protection of the human rights of migrants, including within their own borders, by avoiding the serious human rights violations that many migrants face in countries of transit or destination, so as to have credibility in debates on migration and human rights in third countries.
‒ as shadow rapporteur on this report, my concerns have focused on a few key points: 1. ensuring children's education in host countries and centres; 2. ensuring that women's rights are respected in host countries and centres and that the gender perspective becomes transversal to all relations with migrants; 3. clarify the impact that migrants can have on regional development and the social and economic recovery of the european union; 4. ensure the safety of europeans and migrants by implementing safe migration corridors; 5. make economic aid to third countries dependent on progress in improving the quality of life of their populations and of the migrants they host; 6. to ensure non-discrimination and equality before the law and equal protection of the law; 7. to promote the basic social rights of immigrants, including the right to shelter, the right to health care, the right to fair working conditions, the right to organize, the right to education and training, the right to a minimum subsistence level, the right to family life, the right to physical and moral integrity and the right to legal aid; 8. to prevent and eliminate the clandestine movement and trafficking of migrant workers, particularly undocumented ones.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states, and to give us an opportunity to present a report on the situation in the member states. i would like to stress, however, that i believe, as the report describes, that a concrete, well-organised and adequate response to migration is an opportunity for migrants and for the various countries involved. i also agree with the rapporteur that this response must be based on the principles of poverty eradication, sustainable development, respect for the rights and dignity of migrants and close cooperation between the countries of origin, transit and destination of migration.
‒ this report focuses on one of the problems that currently marks the context of the crisis of capitalism and, in particular, the crisis in and of the european union. the report itself has some shortcomings, notably an incomplete identification of the causes and those responsible for these causes: the capitalist system and the imperialist powers, including the us and the eu. the causes of this can of course include war, and there will also necessarily have to be criticism of nato. the critical component of eu migration policies is absent and we know well the role the eu has played in this matter. by addressing european migration without specifying the causes of this migration and the heavy responsibilities that eu policy has in this matter, in particular with its economic and financial policy, the financial assistance pacts, the report ends up bypassing the essential, even though it contains important aspects that justify our abstention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vergiat report for sharing the analysis and proposals made on human rights and migration in third countries. i would stress that the notion of 'safe country' and 'safe country of origin' should not prevent the individual examination of asylum applications and that it is therefore necessary to ensure that migrants' asylum applications are dealt with in all circumstances. i would like to stress in this report the recommendations for training, vocational training and social skills measures for the integration of migrants into society.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the fundamental rights of workers or of all those who are involved in the production chain in any way is an obligation of the union and all its member states, whether in the eu or outside it. at the international level, i welcome the adoption of the un guiding principles, but i stress the importance of work towards the conclusion of a binding un treaty on business and human rights. the eu has a key role to play in this context, such as in including concerns on this matter in its trade agreements. i see the instruments based on corporate social responsibility (csr) as a way of defending human rights in third countries, and i therefore advocate that they be strengthened and that they take account of the specific nature of small and medium-sized enterprises. we must look for greater efficiency and not an overload of bureaucratic rules. i believe that responsibility is not only legal but also moral, and i therefore support the existence of effective remedies for human rights violations in third countries by european companies. i am pleased to note the concern about the labelling of 'conflict minerals'. i therefore support this report.
‒ an identification label indicating respect for human rights throughout the production chain of a product is one of the proposals in the european parliament's own-initiative report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. the european union is a champion of human rights, and legislation that would oblige european companies to respect human rights abroad would send a strong message to the world. the report builds on the un guiding principles on business and human rights, focusing on respect for human rights in all chains of production, distribution and exploitation of natural resources in third countries, especially in developing countries. i voted in favour.
‒ the report addresses one of the problems that currently marks the crisis of capitalism and the crisis in and of the european union: the humanitarian crisis and the gross violations of rights on european soil. the report has a number of positive points, but it also reveals shortcomings and is compromised by a set of negative references which the right and social democrats would impose, although not to the extent they would like. the result of the vote is that. the causes of the problems and the direct and indirect responsibilities at their origin are omitted. the eu, with the us and nato, is responsible for destabilising the whole of the middle east and north africa, fuelling the extremist groups, which now, in the name of the fight against 'terrorism', claim to be fighting. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it welcomes the euronavfor med mission and its role in combating the smuggling of migrants and calls for these missions to be stepped up. we strongly disagree with this analysis because of the criminal reality it portrays, which is imbued with the eu's security vision. the positive elements contained in it and its origin justify abstention.
in writing. ‒ the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and its action on the international stage (including trade policy) is based on these principles. businesses are a key player in economic globalisation, financial services and international trade, and are required to respect all applicable legislation and international treaties in force, and to respect human rights. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ addressing a pertinent and fair question, the report starts from the mistaken premise that capitalism can be humanized. it is the nature of the capitalist system, its predatory and exploitative aspect, that is the root of the problem. the big companies and multinationals exploit, directly or indirectly, in the name of profit and greedily, the natural resources of the peoples of third countries, without any qualms about committing the most heinous environmental crimes against the population or inhumanely exploiting workers. it is not surprising that references to the need for greater workers' rights, the regulation of work, a better distribution of wealth, or the sovereign role of the states in protecting workers, peoples and resources from the exploitation of big monopoly capital have been overlooked or are nonexistent. the need for trade policies which are not new neo-colonial instruments, but which respect the sovereignty of states and are based on genuine mutual benefit between equal parties, is also absent. we value the references and the call for the application of the un guiding principles on business and human rights and the un global compact, principles which the practice of eu policies escapes, because their class nature is contrary to it. i therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the human rights violations committed by companies worldwide, as they are a major player in economic globalisation, financial services and international trade and must be required to respect all applicable legislation and international treaties in force. the business community must not only respect human rights but also have an important role in providing incentives to promote them, as well as democracy, environmental standards and social responsibility. because the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, and because companies must follow the same values, i support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the view that human rights violations by companies are a matter of concern worldwide and that all companies in the world have a duty to respect human rights, while the european institutions have a primary duty to regulate the liability of companies with an eu link. unfortunately, corporate human rights violations are ongoing and there remains a lack of a comprehensive holistic approach to corporate responsibility for human rights violations. the eu has in turn played a leading role in negotiating and implementing a number of global responsibility initiatives, which are linked to the promotion and respect of international standards.
‒there is still no comprehensive holistic approach to corporate responsibility for human rights violations. companies should adopt, support and implement a set of core values in human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, committing to these values and integrating them into their business activities on a voluntary basis. businesses are the main agents of economic globalisation and are required to respect all applicable legislation and treaties in force. trade and human rights can be mutually reinforcing. european companies operating within the eu and in third countries must set an example in respecting human rights.
‒ the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains, in addition to making the role of labour rights more important, brings with it increased responsibilities in respecting human rights, and the creation of standards, rules and cooperation at international level is absolutely crucial to this end. this report proposes measures to ensure respect for human rights and to prevent their violation in third countries as a result of any management decisions by companies, individuals, non-state actors or governmental entities in the european union, recalling the responsibilities these entities have in carrying out their operations. two of the proposals listed, with which i agree, state that: trade agreements are fundamental to strengthening the world trading system, based on values that are above all respect for human dignity; and that trade must evolve alongside values, as recently stated by the commission in its new trade strategy entitled 'trade for all'. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament.
‒ the council of the united nations human rights council (hrc) approved on 26 june 2014 the launch of the process of developing new binding international standards on multinational enterprises and human rights. the initiative aims to end impunity for human rights violations by multinational companies, directly or indirectly caused by their activities, and to ensure access to justice for victims. we have doubts about the importance attached to smes and the definition of a good behaviour label given by the european commission, to whom we do not recognize political and moral legitimacy in the field of human rights and multinational companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the corrao report because i believe it is fundamental that multinationals with global operations respect human rights rules wherever they operate, regardless of where they are based. i would stress the great importance of corporate social responsibility, especially the practice of integrating the responsibility to respect human rights into contractual requirements binding on companies and their customers and suppliers, whether these are companies or individuals. in this context, i would also like to highlight the work that has been initiated to draw up a binding un treaty on business and human rights, in which i hope the eu and the member states will play a constructive role.
‒ the azores archipelago, due to its geographical location, can act as an important fuelling station for the transatlantic liquefied natural gas routes. the commission should therefore make available funds to support european projects to this end and create a joint project of 'blue lng corridors to islands' in the maritime sector. the report highlights the importance of finding cost-effective and environmentally sustainable energy supply options to increase long-term security of supply in the iberian peninsula and elsewhere in europe, which are not sufficiently connected or integrated into the internal energy market and deserve the eu's full support in the name of the principle of solidarity.
in writing. ‒ this report on the eu lng and gas storage strategy is perfectly in line with the so-called single energy market and the objectives that inspire it. it advocates strengthening the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). it explains the eu's geostrategic interests in terms of dominance of supply routes and energy production points. it advocates the removal of barriers to market integration, i.e. the creation of the single energy market, i.e. opening the door to monopolistic concentration on a european scale in the sector. it advocates the convergence of world gas markets, a position that is inseparable from the efforts being made in the trade field through free trade and investment agreements, in particular with the usa and canada (ttip and ceta). these are paths and options that we fundamentally disagree with and oppose. without prejudice to the recognition of the role of lng in a future energy mix and to any guidelines which may be pursued at national level in this respect, which is why we voted in favour of the amendments concerning the role of portugal (and particularly its autonomous regions, in the case of the azores), we voted against the report.
‒ this report aims to outline an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage, which is mainly structured in the energy security package presented on 16 february 2016 by the commission. this package consists of proposals to prepare the eu for possible disruptions in energy supply, with the aim of making the eu an attractive market for gas suppliers. this report does not fully address important issues such as access to energy, the affordability of energy, energy as a social public good, the need to combat energy poverty. i voted against it.
‒ gas can play an important role in the eu energy system in the coming decades in the industrial production sector as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy as the eu meets its greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy targets and makes the transition to a low-carbon economy, in which the role of gas will gradually decrease in favour of clean energy. the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one element of the energy union which aims to translate into concrete terms the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and which also aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers. it should be noted that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report is on the eu's liquefied natural gas and gas storage strategy and reflects the most negative aspects of the union's energy market. in other words, it favours the domination of private monopolies, always with generous public support, and does not have as its fundamental matrix the public control of these key sectors as a way of ensuring a sustainable management of resources and equitable access to this fundamental good. on the other hand, it insists on confronting the russian federation, rather than understanding the need for political dialogue and respect for the sovereignty of states.
‒ this report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is in line with the european commission's communication of february 2016 under the winter energy package. the rapporteur believes that in order to ensure the achievement of the objective of a resilient energy union, a single energy market should integrate liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the priority should be to create market-based solutions and to use existing regional lng infrastructure. i believe that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the establishment of a genuine energy union with a genuine single energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust. i support this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that liquefied natural gas (lng) offers an opportunity for europe both in terms of increasing competitiveness by exerting downward pressure on natural gas prices and increasing security of supply, and also as a flexible reserve in relation to renewable energies in the context of electricity production. current developments in international lng markets demonstrate that excess supply has led to a reduction in prices, providing an opportunity to offer energy at lower costs to eu consumers through cheaper gas supplies. the report also advocates an lng refuelling station in the azores, which reinforces my vote in favour. the most effective way to ensure energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies and the establishment of a genuine energy union with a genuine single energy market and a common energy policy, as well as cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
‒ this report concerns the european union's strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. the azores, in particular, because of their geostrategic position and importance, could prove to be an important location for the implementation of a fuel station for the transatlantic liquefied natural gas routes. this is precisely the purpose of this report, in which the european parliament is asking the commission to provide funds to support european projects capable of creating a common blue lng corridor project for the islands. in terms of a european strategy in this area, the importance of adopting cost-effective and environmentally sustainable alternatives to current energy supply is highlighted. it is also important to stress that these solutions will ensure long-term supply throughout the european continent and in particular on the iberian peninsula, and thus reduce the current energy isolation. i therefore believe that lng can be a good alternative fuel solution, both at sea and on the road, and also help to reduce the emission of harmful gases into the atmosphere, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this report is on the eu's liquefied natural gas and gas storage strategy and reflects the most negative aspects of the union's energy market. in other words, it favours the domination of private monopolies, always with generous public support, and does not have as its fundamental matrix the public control of these key sectors as a way of ensuring a sustainable management of resources and equitable access to this fundamental good. on the other hand, it persists in its hysteria against the russian federation, instead of understanding the need for political dialogue and respect for the sovereignty of the states.
‒ i voted in favour of the gyürk report, for which i tabled several proposals approved as rapporteur for the eu lng and gas storage strategy in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to ensure energy diversification and security and support a sustainable transition to an energy model based on renewable and clean energy. in this connection, i would like to stress the recommendation i made for the report that the azores archipelago, because of its geographical location, should be able to act as an important fuel station for transatlantic shipping routes and that the commission should provide funds to support european projects such as the one mentioned and create a common blue lng corridor project for the islands. i would also like to stress the amendments tabled by the socialist group to bring the report into line with the targets set in paris and the progressive phasing out of natural gas to achieve these targets, without prejudice to the continued focus on biogas, which is expected to play a decisive role in the future energy mix of the eu. i regret that the wording of the amendments was not more explicit in this respect.
in writing. ‒ fishermen in the various eu countries should be treated equally with uniform inspections. harmonising inspections so that there is a level playing field between all fishing activities, extending controls to the whole production chain and creating a 'basic curriculum' for training inspectors are some of the measures i argue should be adopted. i also agree with the creation of funding mechanisms to increase the use of low-cost technologies to enable voluntary control and to increase the monitoring and safety of fishermen, especially in small-scale artisanal fishing.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the revision of the cfp has decontextualised some issues related to controls, which have become outdated. indeed, there are specific needs to make controlled fishing more uniform, in that this sector is more controlled than any other sector or profession; and that the rules are not applied uniformly between different types of fishing or even between different member states, creating a number of contradictions among fishermen, as regards the regularity, frequency, duration, severity, rigor, effectiveness and methods of controlling fishing in europe. the report highlights a number of issues that can contribute to non-discriminatory treatment in the sector, the effectiveness of controls and the sustainability of marine resources. however, the report has several aspects that raise concerns and ambiguous interpretations, such as those related to the use of new technologies for monitoring; the introduction of a points-based penalty system with implications for fishing licences. at the same time, the report reflects a high degree of centralisation and eu-level definition of technical and policy measures relating to controls, rather than cooperation between member states, and therefore cannot be supported globally.
‒ this report aims to further harmonise fisheries controls in europe, as the rules are not applied uniformly across fisheries or even across member states, and highlights a number of issues that can contribute to more effective and non-discriminatory treatment in the sector, to the effectiveness of controls and to the sustainability of marine resources. however, the report has several aspects that raise concerns and ambiguous interpretations, such as those related to the use of new technologies for monitoring, the introduction of a points-based sanctions system with implications for fishing licences, reflecting a high level of centralisation in the eu in the definition of technical and political measures related to controls, rather than cooperation between member states. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ ensuring effective control of fishing activities is very important in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field between eu fleets. the eu's fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing worldwide must be accompanied by effective implementation of the control regulation in our own waters. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the review of the cfp has decontextualised some issues related to controls, which have become outdated. indeed, there is a need for more uniform control, as the rules are not applied uniformly between different types of fisheries or even between different member states. this is creating contradictions among fishermen as regards the regularity, frequency, duration, severity, rigor, effectiveness and methods of controlling fishing in europe. however, the report has several aspects that raise concerns and ambiguous interpretations, such as those related to the use of new technologies for monitoring and the introduction of a points-based penalty system with implications for fishing licences. at the same time, the report reflects a high degree of centralisation and eu-level definition of technical and policy measures relating to controls, rather than cooperation between member states, and therefore cannot be supported globally.
‒ unfortunately, doubts about the effectiveness and homogeneity of the application of some community regulations still persist, and representatives of the fisheries sector are one of the frequent questioners. this report is a prelude to the next revision of the fisheries control regulation and stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of marine resources, equal treatment of the different members' fleets and effective implementation of the fisheries control regulation. i would like to highlight three proposals by the rapporteur: the first concerns the simplification of community legislation in order to put an end to the 'matriarchy effect' in this area, the second concerns the europeanisation of procedures and the strengthening of the role of the cfp (fisheries control agency), in particular by strengthening its resources and its scope of action. the third proposal, which i think is important, is to make the data collected compatible and harmonized. in order to defend fair and equal treatment between european fishermen, i accept this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as the uniformity of the application of the regulation and its effectiveness are fundamental for the fisheries sector. if it is possible to suspect that the rules are not applied with the same rigor, it is to be feared that we will reach a situation where the rules are no longer respected because they are not the same for everyone. the modernisation of fleets would add value to the success of this measure by equipping the operators with useful capabilities for the control of irregularities. at the same time, it is urgent to defend the fishermen of the outermost regions, who are greatly disadvantaged by their large eezs and by the limitations of the member states in controlling them. the control and monitoring measures in the eezs of the ors must therefore be increased, as i have advocated in an amendment to this report which was approved by the european parliament. in this regard, the budgetary means available, in particular through the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), should be consistent with the objectives of control and allow for the promotion of research and innovation. it is through these instruments that the control policy as a whole can be modernised. unfortunately, the emff is clearly insufficient to meet the needs of the sector.
‒ the harmonisation of fisheries control legislation in europe and control procedures must be transparent and uniform. the different control bodies should seek to coordinate their activities. the penalties should be the same for everyone. the first step is to create a function of judges specialised in maritime matters in each member state. in order to make controls more effective, it is also necessary to make the means of financing, in particular the emff, more consistent with the objectives of control.
‒ this report has been drawn up in the light of the preparation of the next fisheries control regulation. the rapporteur stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, while maintaining a level playing field between fleets. to this end, member states are urged to ensure the effective application of the control regulation. i welcome the significant improvement in the control system thanks to the current regulation combined with the iuu regulation, while not forgetting the disparity between the different inspection sites and the discriminatory nature sometimes resulting from the control of fisheries. the text of this report reiterates the importance of strengthening the mandate of the european fisheries control agency (efca) in order to create joint fisheries control operations that will allow for efficient coordinated action by (many) local, regional and national authorities, as well as eu agencies carrying out similar functions. the lack of interoperability between data collected at member state level has to be considered as a key element for this desired further harmonisation, so it is important to share data in real time. i have voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposals made.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the review of the cfp has decontextualised some issues related to controls, which have become outdated. indeed, there is a need for more uniform control, as the rules are not applied uniformly between different types of fisheries or even between different member states. this is creating contradictions among fishermen as regards the regularity, frequency, duration, severity, rigor, effectiveness and methods of controlling fishing in europe. however, the report has several aspects that raise concerns and ambiguous interpretations, such as those related to the use of new technologies for monitoring and the introduction of a points-based penalty system with implications for fishing licences. at the same time, the report reflects a high degree of centralisation and eu-level definition of technical and policy measures relating to controls, rather than cooperation between member states, and therefore cannot be supported globally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thomas report because i agree with the position presented on fisheries controls in europe following the fourth review of the common fisheries policy. the report is already a preliminary opinion on the european parliament's position on this matter, focusing mainly on simplification of legislation, a single set of control standards, new technologies, better coordination between member states, transparency, the creation of online databases and public websites and the training of fishermen and inspectors. the council also called for the introduction of a european union-wide system of inspections and controls on illegal fishing, including the establishment of national information teams with specialised fisheries inspectors.
‒ prompt access to well-connected transport networks covering the local, regional, national and cross-border dimensions of passenger and freight transport is at the heart of promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu member states and amongst themselves. member states and the eu will have to pool their resources and cooperate closely in the design and implementation of projects with a view to completing the strategic core network by 2030 and the comprehensive network by 2050. member states and the commission should first focus on bridging the gaps, removing bottlenecks and ensuring seamless connections for both passenger and freight transport, thus fulfilling the objectives of the ten-t. however, these efforts to complete the core corridors should also stimulate the development of the overall network by providing a link to neighbouring regions, in particular in cross-border regions, and thus achieve the consolidation of the network corridors.
‒ the existence of quality transport infrastructure and systems is a guarantee for the development of countries and for the improvement of the quality of life of the population. the linkage and interoperability of transport systems within a country or between countries is also a facilitating element in the development and establishment of commercial relations and socio-cultural communication. the countries of central and eastern europe have every right to develop fully and to use the instruments available to ensure greater cohesion. this report, however, emphasises strategies and instruments which represent interests which are contrary to those of the peoples of the various member states and not just those of the targeted countries. the report's main objective is to deepen the single market. more than improving the operability of transport in central and eastern europe, it is important to extend the market of european monopolies to this macro-region. at the same time, it seeks to anticipate future enlargements (western balkans, ukraine) by expanding the transport system so that entry into the single market can be smooth. it also called for the form of infrastructure to be provided by the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and for the possibilities offered by hybrid projects in the framework of public-private partnerships. we voted against it.
‒ connectedness and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on economic growth, employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions. central and eastern europe is a key part of the european single market, with the potential to attract investment and contribute to economic growth across the eu. all modes of transport without exception should contribute to enhancing competitiveness, intermodality and the green transition, with a view to better serving the development of the single market. improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe is a means of achieving the objectives of cohesion policy, in particular with regard to the desirable economic development of border regions. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the existence of quality transport infrastructure and systems is a guarantee for the development of countries and for the improvement of the quality of life of the population. the link between transport systems, within a country or between several countries, is also a facilitating element for the development and establishment of trade relations and socio-cultural communication. the countries of central and eastern europe have every right to develop fully and to use the instruments available to ensure greater cohesion. this report, however, emphasises strategies and instruments which represent interests which run counter to the interests of the peoples of the eu area, not just the countries concerned. the report's main objectives are the need to integrate these countries more closely into the single market, to ensure regional competitiveness and to reject the creation of barriers to the free movement of goods. these objectives show that, rather than improving the operability of transport in central and eastern europe, it is important to extend privatisation, ppps and the market of european monopolies to this macro-region. in view of the above, we cannot support this report.
‒ it is a fact that the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on economic growth, employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions. central and eastern europe is a key part of the european single market, with the potential to attract investment and contribute to economic growth across the eu. all modes of transport without exception should contribute to enhancing competitiveness, intermodality and the green transition, with a view to better serving the development of the single market. it is therefore important to strengthen the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development. member states and the commission should first focus on bridging the gap, removing bottlenecks and ensuring seamless connections for both passenger and freight transport. because i consider it important to implement projects in the transport sector with a view to completing the strategic core network by 2030 and the global network by 2050, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour, considering that the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on economic growth, employment and territorial cohesion in the eu and its regions. central and eastern europe is a key part of the european single market, with the potential to attract investment and contribute to economic growth across the eu. all modes of transport without exception should contribute to enhancing competitiveness, intermodality and the green transition, with a view to better serving the development of the single market. good transport links, including rail links, across national borders are still lacking in many of the central and eastern european member states. this inefficiency of the links between the different modes of transport and the lack of network structures between basic and general transport means that there is not enough interoperability between the different modes of transport, when such interoperability would not only reduce the prices of passenger and freight transport and improve the flexibility of transport services, but would also help to reduce environmental and social concerns.
‒ high-quality transport links are essential for economic activity in europe and for the quality of life of our citizens. prompt access to well-connected transport networks covering the local, regional, national and cross-border dimensions of passenger and freight transport is at the heart of promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu member states and amongst themselves. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. despite progress, serious gaps remain in the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure across the central and eastern parts of the eu, especially in the more rural areas. these gaps need to be filled in order to promote economic growth and employment opportunities for citizens and businesses.
‒ the existence of high-quality transport links is fundamental to european economic activities and to the quality of life of citizens. access to well-connected transport networks at local, regional, national and cross-border level for the transport of passengers and goods is essential for achieving greater economic, social and territorial cohesion in the member states and within the european union (eu) itself. the trans-european transport network (ten-t) aims to develop an integrated multimodal network at european level that promotes the interconnection and interoperability of national networks. transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states has been modernised and improved with european aid since the pre-accession period. however, despite progress, gaps remain in terms of accessibility and connectivity of infrastructure across these regions. these gaps need to be filled in order to ensure economic growth and maximise employment opportunities and therefore member states and the commission should promote the completion of missing links, remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless connections for both passenger and freight transport, thus fulfilling the objectives of the ten-t. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposals listed.
‒ the existence of quality transport infrastructure and systems is a guarantee for the development of countries and for the improvement of the quality of life of the population. the link between transport systems, within a country or between several countries, is also a facilitating element for the development and establishment of trade relations and socio-cultural communication. the countries of central and eastern europe have every right to develop fully and to use the instruments available to ensure greater cohesion. this report, however, emphasises strategies and instruments which represent interests which run counter to the interests of the peoples of the eu area, not just the countries concerned. the report's main objectives are the need to integrate these countries more closely into the single market, to ensure regional competitiveness and to reject the creation of barriers to the free movement of goods. these objectives show that, rather than improving the operability of transport in central and eastern europe, it is important to extend privatisation, ppps and the market of european monopolies to this macro-region. in view of the above, we cannot support this report.
in writing. - the opportunity of this proposal could not be greater. it is clear to everyone that there is a contradiction between the level of demands we place on the applicant countries and the fact that certain member states are calling into question the core elements of the rule of law. but what model to adopt? on the one hand, there are advantages to an institutional agreement: it would not require changes to the treaties, it could bring greater coherence and effectiveness to the work of parliament, the council and the commission (which today each have their own mechanism). on the other hand, there are issues relating to its operation which will need to be fine-tuned, starting with the composition of the panel of experts. but it also points to solutions that could bring immediate improvement: restarting the process of accession of the union to the council of europe convention on human rights or giving more resources to the court of justice of the european union, thus increasing its capacity to respond. this is undoubtedly a good initiative, which is for good causes and which is now taking the first steps in what will be, given its sensitivity and complexity, a long process. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
‒ the commission should present, by september 2017, a proposal for the creation of a union pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights including a preventive and corrective dimension, a cycle similar to the european semester of fiscal policy coordination and country-specific reports. the new european mechanism, which would complement and supplement existing mechanisms, must be based on concrete elements, evaluated on a fair basis and not be subject to external influence, in particular from a political point of view. it should apply to both the member states and the european institutions and be based on a step-by-step approach, including a preventive and a corrective approach. the assessment of the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states and the drafting of the country-specific recommendations should be carried out by a panel of independent experts.
‒ this report proposes the creation of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement providing for measures between the eu institutions and the member states, under article 7 of the eu treaty, which is proposed to be revised in order to make sanctions against any member state relevant and enforceable. the proposal to revise article 7 is intended to go beyond the current planned measure of suspension of voting rights in the council, so that 'financial sanctions or suspension of union funding' can also be applied. it would be funny if it wasn't too serious. the eu is both a reference and an arbiter of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. that's too bad. we are looking at a monument to cynicism and hypocrisy. obviously, we voted against it. it is not surprising that the ps and psd voted in favour of this report, while the cds and be abstained. in the vote on the proposal to revise article 7 teu, which includes the possibility of imposing financial sanctions, ps, psd, cds and be voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, enshrined in its core principles and objectives in the first articles of the teu, as well as in the criteria for accession to the european union. i welcome the creation of a comprehensive union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that includes all relevant stakeholders. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are facing an unacceptable assault on the sovereignty of states, from which we firmly distance ourselves. it aims to deepen the mechanisms of federalisation of the european union and provides for the creation of a political cycle for democracy and the rule of law (as understood), similar to the european semester; to make the teu and the tfeu the legal basis for legislative measures and to revise article 7 of the teu by introducing relevant and applicable sanctions against any member state; to abolish the principle of subsidiarity of the tfeu; to revise the requirement for unanimity in the council for decisions involving fundamental rights. these points legitimize the sanctions and the unacceptable blackmail and pressure that are being applied to portugal. the eu institutions are not exemplary when it comes to democracy and fundamental rights. the harmonization of these constitutes, for countries like portugal, an unacceptable negative pressure, levelling down the standards of social and labour rights. the complexity of european treaties and legislation is, in fact, an obstacle to the legitimate sovereign decision of each people to decide its own destiny, an obstacle to the implementation of the portuguese constitution and the achievements of the revolution which the portuguese people will sooner or later be able to take up and impose, freeing themselves from the constraints of the treaties. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ we can proudly say that europe has a long tradition of democracy, the rule of law and citizens' rights. building on its roots in athenian democracy, the magna carta of 1215, the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 1789, the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights, the european union has enshrined democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (def) in its main principles and objectives as enshrined in the first articles of the treaties, as well as in the eu accession criteria. in its external policies too, the eu stresses the importance of human rights and democratic governance, thus promoting them in partnerships such as the acp-eu. however, while the eu has various instruments to enforce its laws and treaties on material issues such as budgets, public health programmes or tax rulings, the same is no longer true for the fulfilment of its treaty obligations in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it is important to adopt a structure that enables the eu to combat both breaches of specific eu legislation and serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, considering it imperative that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights be enshrined in the main principles and objectives enshrined in the first articles of the treaties and in the eu accession criteria. attempts to include in the treaties a reference to europe's judeo-christian roots have failed, but they demonstrate that the european union is seen as a community of values. in its external policies, the eu stresses the importance of human rights and democratic governance and expects immigrants living in europe to respect and embrace our common values. although the eu has a number of instruments to ensure respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, substantial gaps remain and in practice these instruments show limited scope, are inadequate and inefficient or are unlikely to be implemented. it is therefore essential to adopt a structure that enables the eu to combat both breaches of specific eu legislation and serious threats (and risks of threats) to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
‒ the eu has a wide range of instruments to enforce its laws and treaties on substantive issues. in such cases, member states do not question their obligation to comply with eu law. the same is no longer true when it comes to the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in the field of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. although the eu has several instruments to ensure compliance with these principles, substantial gaps remain and in practice these instruments show limited scope. there is no integrated mechanism for systematic, impartial and comprehensive monitoring of all member states and their institutions. it is imperative to adopt a structure that enables the eu to combat both breaches of specific eu legislation and serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the eu's failures to uphold its own standards and the perception that there are no common european values are also undermining mutual trust and the establishment of a stable and reliable legal framework, which is essential for the eu's smooth functioning in all areas of intervention.
in writing. ‒ the eu is, by definition, a union governed by the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are expressly enshrined in its treaties and constitute criteria for accession. it is the body of instruments at its disposal for the enforcement of laws and treaties on a wide range of substantive issues relating to the various areas of union competence, including taxation, budgetary matters, public health and employment. however, it is clear that the same is not the case in the area of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, where member states and the european institutions sometimes have difficulty in respecting the founding treaties and principles, with substantial gaps in their adequacy, efficiency, exemption, fairness and applicability. as the rapporteur points out, it is important to create an integrated mechanism for systematic, integrated, impartial and comprehensive monitoring of all member states and their institutions, capable of combating breaches of european legislation and threats to these key principles and values. in the light of the above, i was in favour of adopting this report with a view to adopting an eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, in the form proposed.
in writing. ‒ this is yet another unacceptable assault on the sovereignty of states. we do not recognize the european union's legitimacy to give lessons in democracy to anyone. the eu's concept of democracy is that of sanctions, which the report defends and deepens, and of blackmail and pressure. in the case of portugal, with our legislation, this would constitute an unacceptable negative pressure, levelling down the standards of social and labour rights. this is indeed the aim of the eu, creating a standard of minimum rights that excludes other fundamental rights such as the right to health, education or decent work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the veld report because i agree with the considerations concerning the implementation of the european values enshrined in the treaties. i would particularly stress the call for the creation of a democratic evaluation mechanism. this mechanism aims to monitor member states' respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, in the same way as the countries applying for eu membership are assessed.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have just come from the college, where we agreed our work programme for 2017, and i am pleased to be here to present it to you straightaway this afternoon. the work programme is the commission’s commitment to you, and to europeans, about what we will do in the coming year. there are no surprises in what we announce today. the work programme makes concrete the policy priorities that president juncker set out in his state of the union speech and which we confirmed in the letter of intent. this is a focused agenda centred on the big things, a principle this commission has applied since the start of the mandate. it reflects our commitment to the ten priorities on the basis of which you appointed us. like you, we have listened closely to people’s concerns. the challenges for our union today are well known, and citizens feel them in their daily lives: jobs; inequality; the still nascent economic recovery that has yet to deliver for all; migration flows which have tested our external borders – and, i may add, our internal cohesion; the terrorist threat; ongoing instability in our neighbouring countries. europe cannot be the answer to all the problems, but europe certainly needs to be part of the solution to the biggest and most pressing issues. together, we have a shared responsibility to deliver where it matters most and where only working together can make a real difference. to protect europeans’ interests and quality of life, as well as the security, fairness and well—being of our societies; to empower citizens and give them a perspective for a sustainable future for themselves and their families and to defend people’s rights – we already had a debate about that this morning. the 21 new key initiatives we propose today are grounded on the ten priorities and the strategies we have presented to implement them. we commit to delivering on these proposals by the end of 2017. our agenda has been enriched by our dialogue with this house, by the discussions we have had here in plenary and your resolution of july, as well as a day and a half of intensive and constructive exchanges between the college and the conference of committee chairs, which i think was excellent. it is also in line with the priorities identified by 27 heads of state or government in bratislava. this broad degree of consensus about what we should be doing is very welcome indeed, but announcements and proposals are not what matter. results do. we are therefore committed to working intensively and constructively with you and with the member states in the council to reach timely and ambitious agreements on the many proposals that we have already presented. we have listed the most important proposals, as we see them, in the work programme. the new interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking includes a commitment by the three institutions to agree a joint declaration, to be signed by the three presidents, on priorities for the coming year. we look forward to working with you to jointly agree to move ahead quickly on the proposals that can make the most difference on the ground. we have already seen, with the european border and coast guard and with european fund for strategic investments, what we can achieve when we all put our full efforts into negotiations. agreeing proposals is just the start of the story. in the coming year, the commission will put a particular emphasis on implementation and enforcement work, making sure that eu rules are properly applied and enforced across all policy areas, including the internal market and the environment. we will also continue our efforts to improve existing legislation and make it more fit for purpose, more proportionate, and better able to deliver on the policy goals it is supposed to achieve. in the next year we will integrate regulatory fitness in our key initiatives, as well as bring forward a further 18 refit proposals to improve existing law, taking into account the input we have had from stakeholders and member states in the refit platform. we have also published a short brochure which shows how refit is an integral part of delivering on our ten priorities. we are also proposing to withdraw some 19 pending proposals, which are outdated or are no longer needed for technical reasons, and to repeal 16 pieces of obsolete existing legislation. let me end by recalling what i said at the start. the focus of this commission is squarely on delivery, but we cannot do it alone. this is a joint responsibility, a responsibility to ensure that our union makes a real impact and protects, empowers and defends europeans. this commission looks forward to working with you in the next weeks and months to make that a reality through the results we deliver together. the last couple of years have been really encouraging for our mutual cooperation in many areas that are very important today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, european citizens are requesting a european union able to protect them, to empower them, and this is the title of the commission’s work programme. we believe that the commission work programme this year cannot be defined as business as usual. europe needs a new road map, and the commission work programme is just a first step in this direction. we can recognise many of the concerns of the european parliament strategic resolution adopted on 6 july, but let me underline the concerns which are not clear and not presented strongly enough in the commission adopted document. first of all on the social pillar. it is not enough to have a social pillar updating social standards. we need to have the means to really deliver on these social standards. secondly, when it comes to growth, investment and jobs, it is not enough to speak about the european fund for strategic investment and the youth guarantee. we need to have a much more comprehensive investment strategy led by europe 2020 and sustainable development goals, and this should be translated into industrial and trade policy to be updated in europe. this should be translated into a pro-growth economic policy; it must be translated into a community budget with higher ceilings; and it should be translated into a proper fiscal capacity ensuring convergence inside the eurozone. so these points must be more clearly committed by the commission before parliament. then of course, we believe that if we have strong internal cohesion with european citizens, it will be easier to deal with external challenges – hosting refugees, managing migration and addressing security concerns. we believe we do need these new tools for defence and security, but to have a proper road map in rome, we need to go beyond the one which was sketched out in bratislava. we need to put working and living conditions at the heart of a good road map for the european union.
the european institutions' response to the crisis in and of the european union continues to be marked by contradictions, with a common feature of a deepening divergence from the interests and aspirations of peoples and states. the european union is a new world, a new world of economic and political cooperation, a world of economic and political cooperation, a world of economic and political cooperation, a world of economic and political cooperation, a world of economic and political cooperation, a world of economic and political cooperation. your answer highlights two undeniable realities: the fact that the european union cannot be reformed and the urgent need to break with our policies. to guarantee the reversibility of the treaties and the repeal of the treaty on budgetary matters and the treaty of lisbon, to create a programme of support for member states wishing to negotiate their exit from the euro, to put an end to the submission and the partitioning of the single currency, to renegotiate sovereign debts, which are largely illegitimate, to abolish the banking union, to restore public control of banking and sovereign instruments for regulating the economy, to recover strategic sectors of the economy for the public sector, to defend and promote national production and productive sectors, to value work and workers, to defend a tax justice policy that eases the burden on the incomes of workers and the people, breaking with the scandalous favouring of big capital, to defend the democratic regime within the framework of the sovereignty of the states. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe.
madam president, i would like to greet the commissioner and congratulate her on the proposal she has put before us, and i would also like to greet and congratulate the rapporteurs on the work they have done. this proposal from the european commission is a good starting point for us to start negotiations with the council and this revision of the multiannual financial framework is urgent. the poor implementation of the european funds proves this. the regions and local authorities need it, young people are waiting, the economy needs it and the funds are not reaching the member states. we have complexity, we have bureaucracy that prevents normal execution, planned execution. we need flexibility, we need simplicity. this year alone, €7.3 billion has not been spent and will be returned to the member states. we are ready, but where is the council that should be sitting in this important debate here in this chamber? it's urgent, we can't wait any longer, that's enough! that's enough! we can't put it off. we have only one objective, which is to achieve it, and to do that we have to invest, we have to achieve it with companies, with researchers, with farmers, with enterprises and small and mediumsized enterprises, with local authorities, with young people. it is for the sake of the economy that we want the revision, but also for the sake of credibility and respect for the citizens of the european union.
mr president, next year's budget has an additional task: to restore confidence. and this means that the enormous backlog of payments, the enormous backlog of implementation, or rather the multiannual financial framework, must be made up. it should be noted that amending budget no 4 returns eur 7.3 billion to the member states, but commitments remain there and this amount has to be returned to the eu budget at a later stage. this means that we need flexibility, it also means that special instruments, and the name 'special' indicates this, must be accounted for outside and above the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. this is a logical understanding and the only possible legal understanding which the council should also follow. this is to say that it is clear that the draft budget for 2017 implies the revision of the multiannual financial framework. and we cannot waste a single euro, nor can we waste any more time. and it is not acceptable that the council at this point is not yet ready to start discussing the multiannual financial framework and its revision, nor is it ready to start working with parliament on letter of amendment no 1, i.e. to start with the negotiation of the 2017 budget. we want growth, we want jobs, we want solidarity and for that we need a budget which respects the commitments that have been made. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much for asking. the commission proposal on the table is clearly extremely positive. it is an important starting point for the revision of the multiannual financial framework, precisely in order to seek more flexibility, to be able to fulfil what the council has already approved and so often proclaimed, to make concrete actions for employment, for solidarity, for cosme to progress, for research to progress, to help young people in their first job, to help small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers and so that none of the amounts that were available is lost. we cannot waste a single euro and for that we need flexibility in the financial framework, and for that we need the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
mr president, once again we are faced with a budget which is completely out of step with reality and the real needs of the european union. in a european union in deep crisis, with ever greater inequality, with persistently high levels of poverty and unemployment, with a short budget, with a deeply shaken distribution system and increasingly linked to the aggressive and militarist direction of the european union's foreign policy. it is therefore important to strengthen this budget, but it is not enough. we must put this budget at the service of development and social and territorial cohesion and strengthen the special instruments designed, it must be said, to remedy the errors in our foreign policy which are at the root of the russian embargo or the refugee crisis. unfortunately, this proposal does not go in that direction. it is rather a continuation of previous budgets, all of which were subject to a short multiannual framework and served by the european union's neoliberal policies and its security drift.
mr president, the 2017 budget provides, through the letter of amendment from the european commission, for a supplementary budget for a package of aid to the dairy sector in europe. it is a small step towards rebalancing the milk market, but we cannot stop at palliatives. milk producers have suffered a price drop to levels near the production cost threshold, which was exacerbated by the end of milk quotas and the russian embargo. effective measures are urgently needed to prevent and mitigate the increasing volatility of prices in the milk sector and to enable producers to ensure the viability of their production by paying a fair price for their activity. action on this matter is all the more important if we are to avoid undermining the social and economic fabric in rural areas, such as the mountain areas and the outermost region of the azores, where milk production is dominant and where alternative economic activities are scarce.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has successively defended the primacy of social policy in the european semester process. the process of coordinating the union's budgetary and economic policies must put the economy at the service of the citizens, and it is therefore extremely important that we have introduced three new indicators in the field of employment in the macroeconomic assessment panel. but we went further, advocating that these indicators should be on par with existing economic indicators, ensuring that internal imbalances are better assessed and increasing the effectiveness of structural reforms. the whole process must be geared to job creation and the prosperity of the population, guided by the necessary budgetary responsibility to ensure the sustainability of social europe, without putting the younger generations at risk in a process of good economic governance geared to growth, which is incompatible with the application of sanctions to portugal and spain that call into question their investment capacity.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the report by our colleague, mr alfred sant, is right in the main. investment in europe is falling short of what is needed for sustainable and inclusive growth. it is time for the monetary policy of the european central bank to be accompanied by a more growth-friendly fiscal policy. there are three messages from the european parliament to the commission in this report. the first is that the commission should make the most of the flexibility allowed by the euro rules. secondly, we must strengthen the juncker plan, but also ensure that it benefits the less developed regions rather than widening the gaps in europe. and thirdly, the commission must take account of the position of this parliament when it decides to suspend funds for portugal and spain. the majority of this parliament has already made it clear that such a suspension would be unfair, contradictory and counterproductive. in the case of portugal, european funds now account for 78% of public investment. to withhold funds is therefore to withhold growth. it would be unfair, but it would also be a serious mistake against the economy and the european project.
mr president, for us the european semester is the main obstacle to our development. it was the demands of the euro imposed through the european semester that were the basis of an austerity policy that represented for portugal a decades-long regression in terms of investment, income and social rights. it was the rules of the euro that were the basis of a debt that became unsustainable and that prevented policies to revive our economy with effective support for the key productive sectors. it is the european semester that is at the heart of an ongoing operation of intolerable blackmail around our budgetary policy. the report talks a lot about the country-specific recommendations, but they are very clear: more flexibility in labour laws, more privatisation in transport and a wage freeze. there is no economic rationality in this european semester. the european semester, with the false purpose of supporting countries in their budgetary policy, is rather an instrument designed to impose a neoliberal agenda in the service of capital and which the people will sooner or later reject.
madam president, commissioner, the tax burden cannot be placed solely on the shoulders of workers and small and mediumsized enterprises, and this commission already has a very strong record of concessions to multinationals. a common tax base such as the one it proposes for multinationals in the european area may be a good idea, but it is only a good idea if, and only if, the objective is also to define a decent minimum rate. otherwise, this rule could offer a taxation model to large corporations that would allow them to compare different countries even better and promote even more tax dumping and tax evasion. i therefore ask you, commissioner, if it is to be done, to do it seriously and to deal also with the free movement of capital, thereby regulating it, and to deal with tax havens, ending them. do not pretend, commissioner, be consistent, finally put the citizens ahead of the big corporations, whether in tax policy or in the big trade agreements such as ceta or ttip. the citizens would surely appreciate it because they can't have any more... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, commissioner moscovici, this proposal which you say is better and different resurrects the 2011 proposal on the consolidated common corporate tax base, which was then buried by the uk and ireland. as the lux leaks and panama papers scandals and others demonstrate, the shifting of profits from multinationals deprives member states like my own, portugal, of important tax revenues with large companies moving holdings to the netherlands, luxembourg and other tax havens to avoid paying taxes. the pseudo-tax sovereignty in the internal market of free movement has aggravated the economic divergence in the euro area and made fiscal and social injustice unbearable. member states can no longer block an agreement on this matter which should include the c of consolidation and the determination of a minimum rate applicable throughout the european union. we are with you, commissioner, on this.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate which has shown that our objectives are the same. i have listened to everything that has been said here and i really take your comments as encouragement. we want to work together to establish a fair and efficient corporate taxation system in the union. the ccctb - and you all know it - is a truly revolutionary project which will bring about the single market in corporate taxation that the union so badly needs. i really count on your support to move this issue forward and i thank you already for having expressed it here. some of you have raised the question of the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. that is precisely what we are trying to do with the package presented today, namely to restore the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. with the cfsp, the european union, which remains the world's leading trading power, will be able to impose its tax rules on these economic giants, the multinationals, rather than being content with their charity at best. the tax sovereignty of all member states will thus be restored. it doesn't have to be a word, it has to be the truth. there will be no winner or loser. the consolidated base will be allocated according to objective criteria reflecting the economic activity of the companies. the principle we are defending - and you know that i have been systematically promoting it in all the texts i have proposed - is that of effective taxation, according to which profits must be taxed where they are created. we have structured this proposal according to this principle. i hear what you're saying, each other, about rates. some want us to harmonize them, others fear them. in my capacity, i must share what is desirable and what is possible. i do not say what is desirable, but i know what is possible under the rule of unanimity. so i want to say that we will not touch the rates - i say this in the clearest possible terms - and we will never touch them unless the member states themselves want to do so or unless the rule changes, but i do not see a strong appetite for treaty changes at the moment. as a result, the most important instrument, which allows states to manage their tax revenues, will remain intact. this proposal, whether we welcome it or not, is not hostile to tax competition, which is also one of the elements of attractiveness, but it does, once again, set up important rules of solidarity. this assembly is called upon to play a great role, its usual role, not only as a counterweight but as a real political impetus vis-à-vis the council. i therefore count on your continued and effective action to bring this matter to a speedy conclusion. i say "quick", but i also know that the discussion will probably be quite difficult, even a little long. however, we have deadlines that have been set (2019-2021) and will come quickly if we start the countdown. i'm counting on you as much as you can count on me.
in writing. the decision to combat tax fraud and evasion is commendable. however, it cannot but bring a strong check to hypocrisy. tax fraud and evasion are largely legal. they use instruments that have been deliberately constructed by european union governments to serve the interests of multinational corporations. the netherlands, luxembourg and the united kingdom, among many others, have focused their economic policies on creating conditions for attracting fictitious capital, favouring tax piracy operations with other national states. the european commission's big announcements in the face of the lux leaks scandal are now followed by minimalist measures of dubious scope which will be a source of frustration for those who are tired of this scandal and who are demanding firm action. but it's important to say it. there will be no change unless the foundations of the capitalist system which promotes the free movement of capital and the deregulation of the financial system are called into question.
madam president, this process of drawing up a regulation on protection measures against plant pests is contradictory. pest prevention and control is a hot topic. the dominant agricultural models based on intensive export-oriented monocultures reduce the resistance of agricultural systems to pests and increase their devastating effects. for this reason, it is necessary first of all to question and abandon these models, together with the rejection of any form of privatization of genetic resources, in particular through the patenting of seeds. the intention, under the pretext of pest control, to impose registration and certification measures which in practice make small farmers' activities, traditional agriculture and traditional ways of spreading disease unviable is unacceptable. on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term. as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified to eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
madam president, commissioner, trans fatty acids are used in the food industry for a variety of reasons: they give products a longer shelf life, they allow their consistency to be manipulated and, above all, they are a cheap raw material. but consumption of these fats has been linked to increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, obesity, and some types of cancer. we are therefore in favour of limiting the use and consumption of trans fats, but, mind you, the promotion of healthy eating and of fresh, lightly processed products is not only done by legislating to improve labelling, consumer information or even by limiting certain ingredients. all this is necessary but not sufficient. the consumption of processed foods is now associated with economic deprivation, which impedes access to quality and healthy products. the cheapest products are usually those that are more industrially processed. no strategy for promoting healthy eating should ignore this fact; on the contrary, you must actively combat it.
madam president, i would like to start by referring to the ceta agreement and to say here that i do not understand how it is that so many people in this house are concerned, starting with the greens, about the ceta agreement, because that is what donald trump wants, that is what marine le pen wants, that is what farage wants. they want to end free trade. we are here to serve this protectionist ideology, which is making even parties with an open world view hostage to this protectionist ideology. they're with le pen, they're with trump when they're against ceta. and we have to make this very clear, because there has never been a trade agreement that has had such good, such bold, such bold standards of social and environmental protection as ceta. i have not seen anyone here arise against the vietnam agreement, and in vietnam there are problems with children and women and working hours, there are problems with the environment, and nobody has any problems, but as for canada, where we have reached an agreement which is at the moment a model for all the major trading partners in the world, we are here to undo that agreement. that is why i also draw attention to the agreement with ukraine and to our dutch friends, because it is important to strengthen sanctions against russia and i am against the portuguese government, which now wants to lift the sanctions against russia, but what we can do more to put pressure on russia is to have a free trade agreement with ukraine. that, yes, will be the great, shall we say, form of pressure on putin and his attempts.
madam president, how is it that the european council meets on the migration crisis and the conclusions do not include a single reference to refugees, asylum, fundamental rights, legal and safe ways of accessing europe, so that we do not continue to hand over the management of the crisis to the traffickers. what kind of unnatural europe is this, obsessed with protecting borders, which sees people asking for protection as a threat, which measures political success by the number of forced returns, which defends the illegal and immoral eu-turkey pact, which extols as partners repressive regimes like ethiopia, from whose misery and repression refugees flee as immigrants? there have been times when i have criticized the european council for inaction, but today i am truly frightened. this anti-european route through bratislava from fortress europe is a direct attack on our security today and for generations to come. the european defence policy is indeed urgently needed, but it must be dominated by a strategy and policy centred on the values and objectives of the european union, which has failed to show russia that its continued aggression against ukraine and the ruthless bombing of aleppo will not go unpunished.
in writing. we value the position of the walloon regional government and parliament to reject ceta (global economic and trade agreement), even in the context of intolerable eu pressure, a position that makes it impossible for the belgian federal government to sign it, thus blocking the process aimed at signing this free trade and services agreement between the eu and canada. this position is an important contribution to the fight against and defeat of ceta, an agreement which the eu was preparing to sign and bring into force following opaque negotiations and through a process which is a disrespect for democracy and the sovereignty of states. if approved, this agreement would represent an instrument to lower social, labour, environmental and public health rights, to put the interests of multinationals above the interests of the people and the constitutions and sovereignty of the states, and another step in the escalation of the liberalization of world trade with serious consequences for countries like portugal. this position demonstrates the importance and validity of the struggle of the peoples in defence of their interests and rights, and constitutes an example and stimulus for the continuation and intensification of the struggle against ceta and other free trade agreements such as ttip or tisa.
‒ the 2017 budget must respond to the needs linked to the challenges of migration and the slowdown in growth following the economic crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i support increasing the youth employment initiative budget by eur 1 500 million in commitment appropriations. i welcome the commission's proposal for an additional eur 1.8 billion to respond to the challenge of migration in the union. i agree with the need to increase the appropriations for europol, eulis and enisa. i welcome parliament's decision to increase the appropriations for the dairy sector by eur 600 million to counter the effects of the dairy crisis and the russian embargo on the milk sector. i support the replenishment of all the amounts cut in the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks) and in horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme), totalling eur 1 240 million in commitments.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of eu citizens who are able to vote in the european parliament. at the same time, this budget will address the current migration and security challenges facing the eu. despite the new challenges we are facing in europe today, this budget is committed to jobs and growth. the new challenges must be tackled with more resources, not through cuts such as the €1.32 billion proposed by the eu council. this eu budget for 2017 should help to make up for the huge backlog in the implementation of the funds and programmes of the current mff. in 2016 alone, €7.3 billion has not been spent and will be returned to member states. the eu needs economic growth and to strengthen its competitiveness. for 2017, we need more flexibility and less red tape to implement our commitments to citizens quickly.
in writing. ‒ once again, the eu budget fails to address the deep and persistent problems facing the eu and its member states. the cfp submitted more than 100 proposals for amendments to the document. the vast majority was rejected, also by portuguese members of other parties. we highlight some of the areas covered by the proposals we have tabled: increase in the lines for 'pork meat refunds'; defence and conservation of areas considered as special areas of conservation, proposing the creation of a new budget line to support the management of areas integrated into the natura 2000 network; fisheries support; increase in the budget for the staff of the ep's language services; creation of support programmes for countries involved in the troika and for countries that wanted to leave the euro voluntarily (the latter should provide for the necessary compensation for joining and remaining in the single currency). the nine proposals for amendments to the cfp, which were included in the final proposal put to the vote, strengthened the headings on support for social cohesion and productive activities. as these proposals are all of great relevance to portugal, we would point out that the ps, psd and cds voted against them by an overwhelming majority, which we regret.
‒ the 2017 budget should be seen in the broader context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff); a balance needs to be struck between long-term priorities and new challenges. the 2017 budget should be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which represents its main orientation and overall priority. in a situation of scarcity of resources, greater importance must be attached to the need to respect budgetary discipline and to use financial resources efficiently and effectively. i think that is what this budget does, hence my vote in favour.
‒ in view of the scarcity of resources, it is essential to attach greater importance to the need to respect budgetary discipline and to use financial resources efficiently and effectively. i share the rapporteur's view that the union's budget can help to respond effectively both to the consequences and to the root causes of the crises facing the union today. however, unforeseen events with a union dimension should be addressed by concentrating efforts and making available additional resources at union level, without calling into question previous commitments or resorting to purely national solutions. flexibility provisions exist to allow for this kind of joint and rapid response and should be fully used to compensate for the strong constraints imposed by the mff ceilings. i would also stress that youth exchange programmes are one of the most successful measures to increase skills and promote understanding and connectivity between populations. i therefore believe that special attention should be paid to the funds transferred annually to the erasmus+ programme from the european neighbourhood instrument, the instrument for pre-accession assistance ipa2 and the partnership instrument.
‒ once again, we are faced with a budget that is completely out of step with reality and the real needs of the european union. in a european union in deep crisis, with growing inequality, with persistently high levels of poverty and unemployment, we have a short budget, with a deeply shaken distribution system and increasingly linked to the aggressive and militarist direction of the european union's foreign policy. it is therefore important to strengthen this budget, but this is not enough. we must put this budget at the service of development and social and territorial cohesion and strengthen the special instruments designed, it must be said, to remedy the errors in our foreign policy which are at the root of the russian embargo or the refugee crisis. unfortunately, this proposal does not go in that direction. it is rather a continuation of previous budgets, all of them conditional on a short multiannual framework and at the service of the eu's neoliberal policies and its security drift.
‒ i have adopted a favourable position on the adoption of this proposal for the eu budget for next year. this is a budget which must take economic growth, security, the management of migration flows and initiatives such as youth employment as its priority areas of action and financing. i agreed to the proposal to increase the appropriations for these initiatives and to replenish the amounts for the connecting europe facility and for the horizon 2020 programme, which have had (and should continue to have) such a positive impact on the economies of the various member states and on the promotion of the union's economic, social and territorial cohesion. for 2017, the amount set is €160.7 billion in commitment appropriations and €136.7 billion in payment appropriations. in both cases, the value was increased from that proposed in the commission's initial draft. i would like to highlight the following as positive proposals: an increase of eur 1 500 million in the appropriations for the areas of youth, growth and employment, in order to respond more effectively to the tragedy of youth unemployment, as well as in the areas of security, migration management and asylum, where the european response is absolutely vital.
‒ once again, we are faced with a budget that is completely out of step with reality and the real needs of the european union. in a european union in deep crisis, with growing inequality, with persistently high levels of poverty and unemployment, we have a short budget, with a deeply shaken distribution system and increasingly linked to the aggressive and militarist direction of the european union's foreign policy. it is therefore important to strengthen this budget, but this is not enough. we must put this budget at the service of development and social and territorial cohesion and strengthen the special instruments designed, it must be said, to remedy the errors in our foreign policy which are at the root of the russian embargo or the refugee crisis. unfortunately, this proposal does not go in that direction. it is rather a continuation of previous budgets, all of them conditional on a short multiannual framework and at the service of the eu's neoliberal policies and its security drift.
mr president, we have today approved a negotiated package of pilot projects which enable the european parliament to exercise what is almost a right of legislative initiative, by deciding and allocating funding for new and innovative activities. for the outermost regions and overseas territories, we have approved a pilot project with an allocation of eur 1 million, taking advantage of this prerogative of the european parliament. it was made possible by the contribution of civil society on the ground to the elaboration of this project and the support and commitment of meps from the other octs, the overseas territories and continental europe. the outermost regions are the european union's largest repository of biodiversity and this new project will provide €1 million to engage policy-makers, scientists and society at large in developing methodologies to map and assess the state of ecosystems and their services. the main objective is to lay the foundations for the best strategy for the conservation of the biodiversity of the outermost regions through better knowledge of them.
‒ the 2017 budget must respond to the needs linked to the challenges of migration and the slowdown in growth following the economic crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i support increasing the youth employment initiative budget by eur 1 500 million in commitment appropriations. i welcome the commission's proposal for an additional eur 1.8 billion to respond to the challenge of migration in the union. i agree with the need to increase the appropriations for europol, eulis and enisa. i welcome parliament's decision to increase the appropriations for the dairy sector by eur 600 million to counter the effects of the dairy crisis and the russian embargo on the milk sector. i support the replenishment of all the amounts cut in the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks) and in horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme), totalling eur 1 240 million in commitments. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is in line with the draft budget itself. none of them addresses the deep and persistent problems facing the eu and its member states, and in the face of these problems they point or endorse wrong paths. we voted against it. as with the 2017 budget, we have tabled a number of amendments to this resolution which, taken together, demonstrate the possibility and feasibility of another path. the overwhelming majority of our amendments were rejected, however, and the votes of the ps, psd and cds also contributed to this. the pcp, which voted against the eu budget proposal for 2017, will continue to push for a break with eu policies, presenting alternative proposals always in defense of the national interest, the workers and the portuguese people. the positive aspects of the resolution do not erase the negative content of the whole, either by what is said or, more fundamentally, by the enormous omissions. the problem with the eu is that its budget is very insufficient, but its priorities are wrong too. they are not serving the objectives of cohesion, peace and development but, on the contrary, the objectives of regression, aggression and interference.
‒ this report concerns the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, stressing that that draft fully reflects the political priorities adopted by an overwhelming majority. however, it said that 'new priorities must not undermine existing priorities', in particular those relating to growth and job creation, which are for the most part precarious. the report also states that in the current context, initiatives such as the suspension of the european commission's esi funds are not only unfair and disproportionate, but also politically untenable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a step in the right direction. the report, while presenting some positive aspects, focuses on policy options which do not contribute to the strengthening of cohesion and equality in the european area. on the contrary, it increases investment in areas that reinforce the logic of security and of a strong europe. because of the contradictions in the final proposal, i have decided to abstain.
‒ the 2017 budget should be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which represents its main orientation and overall priority. in a situation of scarcity of resources, greater importance must be attached to the need to respect budgetary discipline and to use financial resources efficiently and effectively. i think that is what this budget does, hence my vote in favour.
‒ once again, we are faced with a budget that is completely out of step with reality and the real needs of the european union. in a european union in deep crisis, with growing inequality, with persistently high levels of poverty and unemployment, we have a short budget, with a deeply shaken distribution system and increasingly linked to the aggressive and militarist direction of the european union's foreign policy. it is therefore important to strengthen this budget, but this is not enough. we must put this budget at the service of development and social and territorial cohesion and strengthen the special instruments designed, it must be said, to remedy the errors in our foreign policy which are at the root of the russian embargo or the refugee crisis. unfortunately, this proposal does not go in that direction. it is rather a continuation of previous budgets, all of which were conditioned by a short multiannual framework and served by the eu's neoliberal policies and their security drift.
‒ the 2017 budget must respond to the needs linked to the current challenges of the european union, while respecting the forecasts and responsibilities assumed in previous years. i support the increase in appropriations for migration, security and sustainable growth, and i strongly support the funding of programmes such as the youth employment initiative, in which the previously entered figures remain. i consider it important to increase the budget allocated to agencies that improve efficiency in the field of justice and home affairs, in particular those dealing with migration and security; i would stress that these agencies must have sufficient resources (including for investment in new technologies) and staff. the values attributed to cohesion policy seem appropriate to me as economic, social and territorial cohesion is key to reducing disparities between the different regions of the eu, as it is important for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i therefore support this report.
‒ i voted in favour, recognising that the union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies and new challenges that could not have been foreseen when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework was drawn up. more financial resources should be mobilised in the union budget to meet the policy challenges and to enable the union to deliver results and respond effectively to these crises as a matter of priority and with a high degree of urgency. the 2017 budget should respond to the needs linked to the migration challenge and the slowdown in growth following the economic crisis, to tackling the crisis in agriculture, and to reinforcing funding for research and infrastructure projects as well as to tackling youth unemployment. recalls that about one third of the annual budget of the union is allocated to economic, social and territorial cohesion and that cohesion policy is the union's main investment policy and the main instrument for reducing disparities between all eu regions, playing an important role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth;
‒ as jean-claude juncker recently stated in his state of the union address, the eu's 2017 draft general budget should be a living proof of financial solidarity, focusing on its key priorities - growth, jobs, security and migration - while also ensuring greater flexibility and less red tape. the 2017 oj thus has an additional task, which is to restore confidence by making up for the huge backlog in payments, i.e. in the implementation of the multiannual financial framework. the mid-term review should therefore be reflected in this community budget, so as not to waste time or money. unfortunately, the council intends to cut the amounts proposed by the commission by eur 1.28 billion in commitments and eur 1.1 billion in payments, thereby weakening the eu's instruments for responding to the economic and refugee crisis. i hope, therefore, that the next conciliation process will help to reach an understanding, since we are faced with a budget which gives priority to solving the challenges of the present without compromising the future of the eu.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the budgetary resources available to the union are not sufficient to cover the needs of the union. i would stress that parliament's position rejects the cuts made by the council to the commission's draft budget and replaces all the amounts that were cut in the connecting europe facility and the horizon 2020 innovation programme for a total of eur 1 240 million in commitments. i believe that in the particular context in which we live, initiatives such as the european commission's suspension of the funds provided for in the juncker plan are not only unfair and disproportionate but also politically unsustainable.
‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties that are challenging the credibility of the european union. the council should therefore assume its responsibilities by ensuring a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the remaining years. with this review we should seek to ensure a balance between meeting the eu's long-term political priorities and responding to new emerging challenges. this review should also be the start of a consensus-building process for the post-2020 mff and firm commitments should be made in this context, in particular to address the reform of the own resources system, including the introduction of new own resources, as well as to align the duration of the mff with the political cycles of the institutions. i agree with the creation of a crisis reserve as an instrument for rapid reaction to crises and events with serious humanitarian or security implications. for the above reasons, i support this motion for a resolution on the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently challenging the credibility of the european union, and the council must assume its responsibilities in order to align words and deeds and ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective. the commission proposal for amounts and estimated at eur 12.8 billion includes different components, including complementary contributions to horizon 2020 and the transport cef (eur 0.4 billion each), the erasmus+ and cosme programmes (eur 0.2 billion each) and the youth employment initiative (eur 1 billion).
in writing. ‒ it is clear and consistent with our longstanding position (we could even say a permanent position) that the ceilings for the headings of the eu budget for areas such as cohesion should be revised upwards. the limits imposed on the multiannual financial framework do not in any way allow the much-vaunted principle of economic and social cohesion to be put into effect. they prevent any redistributive function that the eu budget should have. without following the approach taken in this report, and even expressing our profound disagreement with some of the wording used, we acknowledge that it does advance some pertinent considerations. but it's all very insufficient. a considerable increase in the resources available is needed to combat the migration and refugee crisis, he agreed, but in a completely opposite way to the policy that the eu has been pursuing. in other words, resources are needed, yes, but they must be directed towards social and humanitarian support for refugees and not towards fuelling persecutory policies. we advocate a substantial increase in the eu budget, based on contributions from the member states, according to their relative wealth (rnb). this is the only way to achieve the redistributive function of the budget. the report says nothing about this or points to something else. we voted against it.
‒ the eu budget must correspond to the political commitments and strategic objectives of the european union. the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties which are currently undermining the credibility of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. the new crises and priorities that have emerged over the past years, namely the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the persistence of high levels of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as climate change, require a permanent rethinking of the mff. i support the commission's proposal to create an eu crisis reserve as a rapid response instrument to crises as well as to events with serious humanitarian or security implications; considers that the mobilisation of this special crisis instrument will provide a clear and effective solution to the additional funding needed; i also support the proposal to use the appropriations cancelled.
‒ in the context of this review, we follow the need for the ceilings of heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs), 1b (economic, social and territorial cohesion) and 2 (cap and cfp) to be revised upwards in order for the union to respond to the challenges and meet its policy objectives, such as parliament's demands for full compensation for the efsi-related cuts affecting horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, the continuation of the youth employment initiative at the same level as the annual allocations for 2014 and 2015. however, there are red lines in this report which have to do with the financing of the budget, in which we continue to advocate that the rbn route be given priority, and with the rule of unanimity which must prevail as a guarantee of having a budget which is positive for all the national states and not just for some, and we will even say for the minority of member states which today have the majority of the votes.
‒ the possibility of revising the multiannual financial framework is important to respond to the new challenges facing europe, such as the migrant crisis, the maintenance of internal security and the modification of the persistent high levels of youth unemployment. it is essential to ensure compensatory measures for the european fund for strategic investments related cuts on programmes such as horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, as well as to continue funding the youth employment initiative at the same levels as in 2014 and 2015. similarly, funds must be made available to provide an adequate solution to the migrant crisis. i welcome the commission's intention to simplify the financial rules and to create a european crisis reserve to serve as a rapid reaction instrument in more problematic situations. i support this motion for a resolution on the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
‒ i voted in favour, considering that the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff) are insufficient in the face of the number of new crises and priorities that have emerged over the past years, including the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the persistence of high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. a proper response to these challenges requires a substantial amount of additional funding from the eu budget, which could not be fully proportionate in the first years of the current perspective due to the scarcity of financial resources available under the current mff. the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently affecting the credibility of the european union. the council is therefore called upon to assume its responsibilities in order to align words and deeds and ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
‒ the last few years have unfortunately seen an increase in the number of crises and emergencies facing the eu, including the management of the migration crisis, external emergencies, internal security, the fight against unemployment, the sustainability of agriculture and the financing of the european fund for strategic investments. against this background, the adequate response to these pressing challenges requires a substantial amount of additional funding from the european budget, which cannot be provided in the coming years, thanks to the limited financial resources available under the current multiannual financial framework. it is therefore urgent to revise it in order to respond to the current budgetary difficulties that are jeopardising the eu's credibility with regions, local authorities, young people, businesses, farmers, researchers and others. this motion for a resolution calls for a review of the current framework, ensuring a budget that is realistic, credible, coherent, sustainable and that respects the just aspirations of the european citizens. i agree with the content of the report and therefore voted in favour of it, since only a revision based on the proposed framework will ensure a balance between the urgent needs of the major challenges of the present and the commitments for the future of europe.
‒ in the context of this review, we follow the need for the ceilings of heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs), 1b (economic, social and territorial cohesion) and 2 (cap and cfp) to be revised upwards in order for the union to respond to the challenges and meet its policy objectives, such as parliament's demands for full compensation for the efsi-related cuts affecting horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, the continuation of the youth employment initiative at the same level as the annual allocations for 2014 and 2015. however, there are red lines in this report which have to do with the financing of the budget, in which we continue to advocate that the rbn route be given priority, and with the rule of unanimity which must prevail as a guarantee of having a budget which is positive for all the national states and not just for some, and we will even say for the minority of member states which today hold the majority of the votes.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million. estonia has submitted a proposal to reintegrate workers made redundant in the manufacture of chemicals and man-made fibres. the application concerns the dismissal of 800 workers and provides for the mobilisation of eur 1 131 358.
‒ 1,550 workers were laid off from 3 different companies in estonia, two from shale gas production, including the main energy company in the baltic states, and one from chemical production. only 800 of the workers made redundant are expected to participate in the european globalisation adjustment fund measures. some of those workers have been employed since this application. this application will mobilise eur 1 131 358, 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures. the report proposes specific measures which will include, for example, psychological counselling and a study grant of eur 260 per month. it proposes an active consultation of the unions. it also proposes an estonian language course for the russian minority (although this is a good measure to enable these workers to speak estonian, it also relates to a government option which considers that 63.3% of the workers laid off are 'non-eu citizens'). since estonia does not grant citizenship to its russian minority, this high number actually includes russian speakers. it is expected that the planned measures will include training for all (and covered transport to enable participation). a fundamental change is needed, which involves a break with the neoliberal policies which have made it necessary to mobilise this fund.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to assist workers whose undertakings have been relocated. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to estonia, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals following redundancies in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 19 (manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products) and division 20 (manufacture of chemicals). estonia is not divided into nuts level 2 regions and 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf support are expected to participate in the measures. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in the present case, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 19 (manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products) and division 20 (manufacture of chemicals). estonia is not divided into nuts level 2 regions and 800 of the 1 550 redundant workers eligible for egf support are expected to participate in the measures. i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and i consider it vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
‒ estonia submitted an application egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 1 550 workers. this perverse instrument, designed to cover the effects of capitalism, deserves our condemnation. our vote in favour is only because we are in solidarity with the workers who are victims of a system that is fuelled by the eu, the consequences of which we end up dealing with every session and every day in every country.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns. since its creation, the fund has enabled thousands of newly unemployed people to access professional counselling services for re-entering the labour market, thus supporting the creation of their own businesses and new opportunities for education and training. the application to the fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of 800 workers made redundant by eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as was submitted to the commission on 28 september 2016. this is the ninth application examined under the 2016 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf for estonia. the commission has concluded, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. i therefore vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of estonia to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as, which are active in the chemical and synthetic and artificial fibres sector in the ida-virumaa region. according to the commission, personalised services to be provided to redundant workers constitute active labour market measures falling within the eligible actions defined in article 7 of the egf regulation. however, these actions do not replace passive social protection measures. in addition, the proposed package of measures is in line with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy 2014-2020 as well as in the ida-virumaa action plan for 2015-2020. the estonian authorities further state that the coordinated package of measures is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy and has a high potential to facilitate it.
‒ estonia submitted an application egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 1 550 workers. this perverse instrument, designed to cover the effects of capitalism, deserves our condemnation. our vote in favour is only because we are in solidarity with the workers who are victims of a system that is fuelled by the eu, the consequences of which we end up dealing with every session and every day in every country.
‒ this directive aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the accessibility requirements of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, thereby making those websites and mobile applications more accessible to users, in particular to persons with disabilities. i support the charanzowa report which approves the council's position at first reading, thus allowing the obstacles within the internal market resulting from the lack of harmonisation of national approaches to web accessibility to be removed. it is inconceivable that the internet should not be a reality for everyone today, with segregation in access to information and the full exercise of rights for millions of european citizens. i welcome the fact that this new directive will facilitate access to information and public services on the internet for these people, contributing to an inclusive society and the completion of the digital single market, by making websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies such as administrative, judicial and police services, as well as hospitals, universities and libraries, subject to common european accessibility standards.
in writing. ‒ public administrations are increasingly making online services available to citizens. however, there are currently around 80 million people in the eu with some form of disability for whom access to these types of services is not easy. the new directive, already agreed between negotiators from the european parliament and national governments, aims to ensure that public sector bodies take the necessary steps to make their websites and mobile applications more accessible by making them discernible, operable, understandable and robust. public bodies will have to develop tools, such as magnifiers or screen readers, to help older people and people with disabilities use their websites and applications. i voted in favour.
‒ we consider the proposal to introduce mandatory accessibility for certain types of public bodies' (state, regional, local and public law bodies) websites in essential government e-services such as network services, banking, education, social security, health services, social inclusion services and cultural activities to be generally positive. this directive aims to improve the lives of citizens, especially people with disabilities and the elderly, in terms of accessibility to these public bodies' websites, given that much of the information available is online. however, we consider that it should be safeguarded that member states that have already developed their national accessibility policies and standards on the basis of wcag 2 should be exempted from the application of this directive. this avoids additional costs for national, regional, local and other public authorities. furthermore, the provision of these services on a digital platform cannot in any case mean the removal or limitation of access to the same services through traditional infrastructures. the absence of access to the internet or the inability to use this resource and functional illiteracy are a reality that cannot be overlooked and affect a significant part of the population.
‒ this directive will help member states to meet their national commitments on web accessibility, as well as their commitment under the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities to public sector bodies. the commission is proposing to harmonise national public sector measures at eu level as a necessary condition to end this fragmentation and lack of confidence in the web accessibility market. this directive concerns the websites of public sector bodies because those bodies provide essential information and services to citizens and because public procurement alone can already create a secure and reasonably sized market for website creators. harmonisation will lead to better market conditions, more jobs, lower costs of web accessibility and more accessible websites - a triple win for governments, businesses and citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the evolution towards a digital society offers users new ways of accessing information and services. information and service providers, as well as public sector bodies, increasingly rely on the internet to produce, collect and make available a wide range of information and services electronically that are essential for the public. for the purposes of this directive, the term 'accessibility' should be understood as the principles and techniques to be observed in the design, construction, maintenance and updating of websites and mobile applications in order to make their content more accessible to users, in particular to persons with disabilities. i advocate a close relationship to help member states meet their national commitments on web accessibility, as well as their commitment under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities to public sector bodies.
‒ we consider the proposal to introduce mandatory accessibility for certain types of public bodies' (state, regional, local and public law bodies) websites in essential government e-services such as network services, banking, education, social security, health services, social inclusion services and cultural activities to be generally positive. this directive aims to improve the lives of citizens, especially people with disabilities and the elderly, in terms of accessibility to these public bodies' websites, given that much of the information available is online. however, we consider that it should be safeguarded that member states that have already developed their national accessibility policies and standards on the basis of wcag 2 should be exempted from the application of this directive. this avoids additional costs for national, regional, local and other public authorities. furthermore, the provision of these services on a digital platform cannot in any case mean the removal or limitation of access to the same services through traditional infrastructures. the absence of access to the internet or the inability to use this resource and functional illiteracy are a reality that cannot be overlooked and affect a significant part of the population.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a directive relating to the standardisation of accessibility requirements for websites and mobile applications of public bodies. after the european parliament's approval at first reading, and following agreement in the negotiations with the council, a second reading is now put to the vote. the proposal aims to facilitate access to content on public bodies' platforms for all users, with particular attention to those with special needs. the directive provides for the introduction of minimum accessibility conditions, as required by the monitoring and regular reporting of the websites and mobile applications of public bodies in the member states. because the public information and services available on the internet must meet the standards of an inclusive society, i support this text and in that sense i am voting in favour.
‒ this directive aims to improve the accessibility of public sector websites and their content for citizens with disabilities, but also for the elderly. we live in a digital age and all citizens should be treated equally in terms of access to information. this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society by ensuring that public sector institutions make their websites and applications accessible to everyone.
in writing. in 2012, the european commission presented its proposal for a directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. in addition to the objective of introducing standardised accessibility features within the eu, the process of accessing such content is also intended to be easy and accessible for all users. this directive aims to establish minimum conditions for the accessibility of websites on an equal basis, requiring regular monitoring of the functioning assessment by the member states. in addition, mobile applications have also been included in the directive, following a proposal from the european parliament. public bodies must also prepare an 'accessibility statement' - in line with the directive in question - thus allowing citizens to request more specific information if the content is or is not accessible, and to report any shortcomings of the website or application. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this directive will bring substantial improvements to the present system once it is implemented.
‒ the proposal for a directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites (com (2012) 721) submitted by the ec lays down specific technical provisions whereby member states are required to make accessible the content of certain types of public sector bodies' websites (which provide information and services essential for citizens' participation in the economy and society). the directive aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites by laying down harmonised requirements.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry. healthy seeds and propagating material are needed to produce profitable crops and to ensure jobs, crop innovation and food security. pests from other continents are particularly dangerous. in general, european plants and trees do not have adequate genetic resistance to allotment pests, which, moreover, do not usually have natural enemies here. when introduced into europe, allotonic pests cause serious economic damage. economic losses, sometimes severe, are affecting the profitability and competitiveness of agriculture and forestry. i therefore agree with the protection measures proposed in the report.
‒ the purpose of this regulation is to prevent the entry and spread of two types of plant pests, quarantine pests and non-regulated quarantine pests which are allowed up to a limit. one of the main concerns raised by the legislative proposal was the registration and certification of producers, which posed a risk of potential impact on small producers with low risk products, selling only small volumes of low or no risk plants (including seeds), who would have to pay to register and face prohibitive fines, when they should not be the target of these measures. there was also another group that was unintentionally affected, seed-supply organisations that take action to conserve rare varieties and species and ensure genetic biodiversity. these concerns were duly safeguarded in the final version of the regulation. during the negotiations it was also possible to ensure (thanks to pressure from the southern countries) that this regulation imposes strict controls on the import of plant material into the eu, hoping to prevent future outbreaks of plant diseases (such as the recent attack of xylella fastidiosa on olive trees). even though not all concerns have been removed, but the main ones have been removed, the text has been improved throughout the process of its discussion.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry. healthy seeds and propagating material are needed to produce profitable crops and to ensure jobs, crop innovation and food security. in the case of trees and shrubs, plant health protection is essential for the preservation of forests, landscapes and public and private green spaces across the union. plant health is also important for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services. the proposal is part of a package of revisions relating to plant health, the quality of plant reproductive material, animal health, official controls on plants, animals and foodstuffs for human and animal consumption and union expenditure on these policies. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the current eu regulatory framework on plant health aims to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry and spread of allotment pests. in recent times, this framework has been criticised for its inability to stop the increase in new dangerous pests entering the eu territory due to the increase in international trade. this legal framework needs to be amended to be able to fully address the growing risks and to modernise. the main problems identified are insufficient concern for prevention in high-risk goods, the need to prioritise pests at eu level and in the 28 member states, the need for better tools to control the presence and spread of pests and the need to improve tools for movement within the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that professional operators must be covered by the system of protection measures against plant pests, just as it is essential to combat pests also in public or private green areas. however, it is essential that this process is as transparent and predictable as possible.
‒ the dominant agricultural models, based on intensive export-oriented monocultures, reduce the resilience of agricultural systems to pests and enhance their devastating effects, which is why it is necessary, first of all, to question and abandon these models, along with the rejection of any form of privatisation of genetic resources, in particular through the patenting of seeds. the intention, under the pretext of pest control, to impose registration and certification measures which in practice make small farmers' activities, traditional agriculture and traditional plant propagation methods unviable is unacceptable. on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term. as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified, which eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
‒ the new legislation must ensure a high level of security for the european union in relation to the import of plants and plant products. the new system will make it much more difficult to introduce pests such as xyllela fastidiosa in southern italy or the asian longhorned beetle in the uk. the new quarantine measures envisaged will also take account of the specificity of each case and farmers will be supported in eradication procedures and will receive compensation for losses. the introduction of the plant passport is also an innovation brought about by this regulation, with the aim of ensuring a high degree of traceability.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, enabling profitable crops and acting as a guarantee for job preservation, innovation, food security and biodiversity protection. pests from other continents are particularly dangerous, given that european agriculture is not genetically resistant to allotment pests which are already causing serious economic damage, compromising the profitability and competitiveness of european agriculture and forestry. the current eu regulatory framework for plant health has been the subject of several criticisms. the shortcomings identified include the insufficiency of preventive measures with regard to the increase in imports of high-risk goods, the need to prioritise pests at eu level for member states, the lack of tools to control the presence and natural spread of pests should they reach the union territory, the lack of modernisation and updating of tools for intra-eu movement, and the need to provide for additional resources. the aim of this revision is to fill the gaps identified and to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework, adapted to its objectives, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ the dominant agricultural models, based on intensive export-oriented monocultures, reduce the resilience of agricultural systems to pests and enhance their devastating effects, which is why it is necessary, first of all, to question and abandon these models, along with the rejection of any form of privatisation of genetic resources, in particular through the patenting of seeds. the intention, under the pretext of pest control, to impose registration and certification measures which in practice make small farmers' activities, traditional agriculture and traditional plant propagation methods unviable is unacceptable. on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term. as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified, which eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
‒ the european semester is an important instrument for the coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the eu's projected growth rate is 1.8%, unemployment remains high (10.5 million long-term unemployed) and political situations (brexit, russia or refugees) have important implications for the investment climate. i regret that the response rate of the states to the recommendations of the european semester is below 30%. i welcome the reference to the specific situation in portugal and the call for the results of the structured dialogue to be taken into account for any decision on the suspension of the structural funds. i agree to reduce the number of recommendations by concentrating them on specific topics. support for investment in innovation, socially balanced structural reforms and control of public finances are priorities i follow. in the context of employment and social affairs, i support the specific attention to youth unemployment, social inequalities and people at risk of poverty, as proposed by mrs sofia ribeiro in the committee on employment and social affairs. in the context of the internal market, i share the priority given to the digital single market, to better vat harmonisation and to improving the system of recognition of qualifications. i therefore support this report.
‒ the commission's spring 2016 economic forecast projects growth rates of 1.6% for the euro area and 1.8% for the eu in 2016. unemployment in the eu in general (and structural unemployment in particular) remains one of the main challenges facing member states, as it is currently very high (10.5 million long-term unemployed in the eu). the political situation, including the outcome of the uk referendum, relations with russia and uncertainties about the world economy, have further inhibited investment. i therefore believe it is important to improve the eu's overall capacity to grow, create and maintain quality jobs and thus tackle high levels of unemployment by creating a regulatory framework that supports growth.
‒ this report looks at the european semester process in a spirit of defending, legitimising and consolidating it. obviously, we voted against it. the reasons go up. the european semester represents a significant qualitative leap in the process of attacking national sovereignty and concentrating power in supranational institutions, controlled by the eu directorate, in the service of big capital. the way it's configured takes on neocolonial contours. it is no coincidence that it was first claimed and then defended by the organizations of the large european employers. the aim is to tie the states to neoliberal policies and options. social democracy plays its part in this process, legitimising the european semester and seeking to give it a 'social' appearance. the report advocates the completion of the banking union and the capital markets union. the so-called five presidents' report praises the escape by the eu bureaucracy in the face of the explosive sharpening of the contradictions of the process of capitalist integration, especially with regard to economic and monetary union. some of the positive recommendations contained in the report do not alter its fundamental matrix. we have been actively involved in the debate on this report, tabled several amendments at different stages and in different committees, 11 of which were tabled again in the plenary.
‒ the commission's spring 2016 economic forecast projects growth rates of 1.6% for the euro area and 1.8% for the eu in 2016. europe is still facing a large investment deficit, so it is necessary to increase domestic demand and correct macroeconomic imbalances while increasing investment in the eu. the challenges facing the eu are linked to the deteriorating international situation, the inability to carry out structural reforms and the divergences in economic and social performance in different parts of the union. growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness need to be increased. the lack of sustainable investment and shortcomings in the completion of the single market are preventing the eu from fully realising its growth potential. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ based on the european economic forecast for spring 2016, the eu economy is expected to grow less than expected, with gdp in the euro area forecast to increase by only 1.6% and reach 1.8% in 2017. i agree with the rapporteur that a properly functioning, integrated and competitive single market is essential for the recovery of the european economy after the financial crisis. the single market is the backbone of the eu economy. i am in favour of an inclusive single market with stronger governance, better regulation and competition. in this way we improved growth, cohesion, employment and competitiveness, while preserving business and consumer confidence. i would point out that the european semester places particular emphasis on employment and social performance. i think it is important for the eu to call on the member states to take urgent measures to ensure decent work and wages that allow people to live in dignity, access to a minimum income and adequate social protection and quality public services, and to advocate the development and creation of a truly sustainable social security system.
in writing. ‒ for us, the european semester is the main obstacle to our development. it was the demands of the euro, imposed through the european semester, that were the basis of an austerity policy that represented for portugal a decades-long regression in terms of investment, income and social rights. it was the rules of the euro that were the basis of a debt that became unsustainable and that prevented policies to revive our economy with effective support for key productive sectors. it is the european semester that is at the heart of an ongoing operation of intolerable blackmail around our budgetary policy. the report talks a lot about country recommendations. but these are very clear, they call for more flexibility in labour laws, more privatisation in transport and a wage freeze. there is no economic rationality in the european semester. the european semester, with the false purpose of supporting countries in their budgetary policy, is rather an instrument designed to impose a neoliberal agenda in the service of capital and which the people will sooner or later reject.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing a worrying investment deficit, which makes it necessary to increase domestic demand and correct macroeconomic imbalances, while increasing investment in the european union. in this context, the challenge of combating youth and long-term unemployment must be a priority, despite the evolution of the political situation, in particular the outcome of the united kingdom referendum, relations with russia and uncertainties about the evolution of the world economy. support the importance attached by the commission in the 2016 country-specific recommendations to the three main priorities for strengthening economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially sustainable and balanced structural reforms and promoting responsible public finances. i stress the importance of coherence between the instruments of cohesion policy and the wider framework of economic governance in order to support the efforts needed to ensure compliance with the rules of the european semester. i therefore support this report.
‒ in my opinion as rapporteur for the committee on regional development on this resolution (which i voted in favour of), in addition to the important positions on regional policy voted (and enriched by amendments by my peers) at commission headquarters, i thought it important to underline the decisions of the european commission (ec) and the council to cancel the fines on portugal and spain following the huge reform and budgetary consolidation efforts made in recent years in a difficult economic environment and taking into account the commitment of the two states to comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact. as regards the procedure for the suspension of funds, which is in the process of structured dialogue between the ec and the european parliament, it seems to me that it makes no sense to apply a suspension of funds to the two countries (even referring to 'commitments' and not 'payments') after the fine has been cancelled! the arguments that were true for the cancellation, still hold true for the suspension! moreover, no one would understand how the central government could not be penalized with fines and then the regions, the municipalities, the companies, the academy or the associations would be penalized with a suspension of the structural and investment funds. it would be incomprehensible irrationality. it's obvious.
in writing. ‒ for us, the european semester is the main obstacle to our development. it was the demands of the euro, imposed through the european semester, that were the basis of an austerity policy that represented for portugal a decades-long regression in terms of investment, income and social rights. it was the rules of the euro that were the basis of a debt that became unsustainable and that prevented policies to revive our economy with effective support for key productive sectors. it is the european semester that is at the heart of an ongoing operation of intolerable blackmail around our budgetary policy. the report talks a lot about country recommendations. but these are very clear, they call for more flexibility in labour laws, more privatisation in transport and a wage freeze. there is no economic rationality in this european semester. the european semester, with the false purpose of supporting countries in their budgetary policy, is rather an instrument designed to impose a neoliberal agenda in the service of capital and which the people will sooner or later reject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sant report for agreeing with the priorities presented for 2016 which focus on increasing investment in areas such as education, innovation, research and development and the creation of quality jobs. i regret that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in the completion of the single market are preventing the eu from fully realising its growth potential. i would therefore like to stress the importance of coherence between the instruments of economic policy, always as an expression of european solidarity, with the main objectives of strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu by reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and bringing the eu closer to its citizens. i would also like to highlight the commission's new approach to limiting the number of recommendations and its efforts to streamline the semester by including priority areas of macroeconomic and social importance in the definition of policy objectives for the coming months.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels and bioliquids. high intake of these unsaturated fats is a risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease, which is responsible for about 660,000 deaths per year in the eu, or about 14% of total mortality. the fact that only one in three european consumers is aware of trans fatty acids (tfa) shows that labelling measures are not effective and that measures must be taken to raise public awareness. that proposal shall be accompanied by an impact assessment to calculate the costs of industrial reformulation that may result from the imposition of mandatory limits and to assess the risk of those costs being borne by consumers.
in writing. ‒ transesterified fatty acids (tafas) are unsaturated fats that can be found in foodstuffs obtained from ruminants or in the production of industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. they are cheap and easily obtainable raw materials. consumption of these oils has been linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, obesity, and some cancers. the products that currently have the most unsaturated fats are fast food and snacks (salty or sweet) and foods classified as highly processed. according to the relevant agencies who, efsa and fda these fatty acids are not considered safe for human consumption and their consumption should be kept to a minimum. we are in favour of limiting the use and consumption of this type of trans fatty acids as much as possible in order to prevent disease and promote healthy eating habits. we generally agree with the wording and content of this resolution. but we must point out that the issues of promoting healthy eating and the consumption of fresh, low-processed products cannot be solved simply by legislation on labelling or by limiting the use of agts in processed foods. the reasons for economic inadequacy are, in this context, inescapable.
‒ trans fatty acids (tfa) are a specific type of unsaturated fat. the question of agt is a priority for parliament, which reiterates its concern about the risks that agt poses to human health. the food industry should give priority to alternative solutions that respect health and environmental standards, such as the use of improved oils, new fat modification processes or the combination of ingredients to replace agt (fibres, pulp, starches, protein blends, etc.). we should work for healthier food. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ trans fatty acids (tfas) are a specific type of unsaturated fat that can be found naturally in foods derived from ruminants, such as dairy products and meat, as well as in some plants and plant products. they are mainly present in industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils (vegetable oils that are modified by the addition of hydrogen atoms and used for frying and cooking and in processed foods to extend shelf life). this resolution concerns only industrially produced fatty acids. the issue of agt is a concern with regard to the risks it may pose to human health. i agree that the proposal should be accompanied by an impact assessment to calculate the costs of industrial reformulation that may result from the imposition of mandatory limits and to assess the risk of those costs being borne by consumers. i believe that the commission should work with the member states to increase knowledge in the field of nutrition, encouraging consumers and enabling them to make healthier food choices.
‒ consumption of these fats has been linked to the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, obesity and some cancers. agencies such as who, efsa and fda warn of the dangers of this consumption and recommend that it be as low as possible. we are therefore in favour of limiting the use and consumption of trans fats. but promoting healthy eating and fresh, low-processed products is not just done by legislating to improve labelling. it should be borne in mind that many of these products are distinguished by their low price. in other words, the consumption of processed foods is now associated with situations of economic insufficiency, which impedes access to quality and healthy products. no strategy for promoting healthy eating should ignore this fact. moreover, you must actively fight it.
‒ i voted in favour, as trans fatty acids (tfas) are a specific type of unsaturated fat. agts are mainly present in industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. the report also calls for the european commission to establish as soon as possible a legal limit for industrial agts in all foodstuffs in order to reduce their consumption by all groups of the population.
‒ although trans fatty acids (tfas) are naturally present in ruminant-derived foods such as dairy products and meat, as well as in some plants and plant products (garlic, peas, lettuce, rapeseed oil), they are mainly present in production partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. this resolution concerns only industrially produced fatty acids. many restaurants and fast food establishments use agt to fry food, as these fats are cheap and can be reused several times in industrial frying machines. frequent consumption of these has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (more than any other factor), infertility, endometriosis, gallstones, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, obesity, and some cancers. the consumption of agt should be as low as possible in the context of a nutritionally adequate diet (less than 1% of the daily energy intake). the european commission needs to set as soon as possible a legal limit for industrial agts (both as an ingredient and as a final product) in all food products in order to reduce their consumption by all groups of the population.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the european union. in practice, the aim is for the european commission to implement within two years a legal limit for agts in all food products, given the high risk that this type of fat poses to public health. the proposal also proposes that the food industry should adopt alternatives to these types of fatty acids which respect environmental and health standards and thus also reduce inequality between consumers, since they tend to be used in cheaper foods. the resolution is therefore extremely relevant and will represent a significant development in terms of promoting a healthier lifestyle by encouraging the community executive to adopt legislation regulating the content and requiring the labelling of this type of acid in food products.
‒ consumption of these fats has been linked to the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, obesity and some cancers. agencies such as who, efsa and fda warn of the dangers of this consumption and recommend that it be as low as possible. we are therefore in favour of limiting the use and consumption of trans fats. but promoting healthy eating and fresh, low-processed products is not just done by legislating to improve labelling. it should be borne in mind that many of these products are distinguished by their low price. in other words, the consumption of processed foods is now associated with situations of economic insufficiency, which impedes access to quality and healthy products. no strategy for promoting healthy eating should ignore this fact. moreover, you must actively fight it.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following products: i would stress that high intake of these unsaturated fats is a risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease, which is responsible for approximately 660 000 deaths per year in the eu, representing about 14% of total mortality. the fact that only one in three european consumers is aware of trans fatty acids shows that labelling measures are not enough and that additional measures must be taken to raise public awareness. in this context, i would stress the european parliament's request that the commission submit a proposal within two years to establish a legal limit for industrial fatty acids in all foodstuffs in order to reduce their consumption.
mr president, the reports i have heard from lesbos, athens, indomeni, rome, calais, malmö and other places of arrival of immigrant refugees are heartbreaking, shocking, uncomfortable, especially when they come from children who lack everything, including access to education, specialist legal advice, psychological support, often parents and relatives, with the risks that lost generations pose both to their countries of origin and to europe. there are still the most vulnerable among the vulnerable: unaccompanied children, disabled children, minorities and thousands of those reported missing by europol. in malmö, police told us that if a swedish child went missing, they would search the country for her and those responsible for her disappearance, but if she was a migrant or a refugee, there was not enough. and our european governments have the gall to invoke security reasons when they hand over children to predators of all kinds, linked to trafficking networks and therefore to the organised crime associated with them, which they leave unpunished and whose business they in fact support. let us start somewhere against this unnatural, dehumanized europe. commissioner, let's at least look after the children.
mr president, the battle to liberate mosul is, as we know, a huge military challenge, given the nature of the enemy, and a huge humanitarian challenge, given the number of civilians affected. but there is much more at stake in the battle for mosul than defeating daesh and liberating the city and its people. the future of iraq is at stake. daejeon will be defeated, that's for sure! but we can no longer be sure that the defeat of daexe will automatically usher in an era of peace in this long-tormented country. some of the forces that are fighting the jihadists today were fighting each other not long ago. there are wounds and rivalries only temporarily suspended. the post-daesh period will therefore be a critical period, full of dangers, but it will also be a historic opportunity for reconciliation and development in iraq. as we know, iraq is characterized by a great ethnic-religious diversity. the country will only achieve peace and prosperity if it respects and preserves this diversity, creating conditions for the political participation of the various religious minorities and social strands. the objective of stabilizing and prospering iraq will depend on external and internal efforts. it will have to go through, among other things, a dialogue between shiites and sunnis, as well as a dialogue with the various countries in the region, and the european union can and should play a very active role in this. thank you very much.
mr. president, a few years ago i visited the brave peshmerga on the front line near mosul and realized how liberating this city is crucial to wiping out daesh globally. but it is imperative that the liberating forces respect international law during and after the military operation and open humanitarian corridors under international monitoring. the governments of the european union have a duty to support the authorities of iraq and the kurdish regional government more and more effectively by coordinating humanitarian and military aid, including support for the reconstruction and protection of liberated areas and minorities, deterring turkey's territorial ambitions, and the shia-sunni dialogue essential for reconciliation and democratic governance, and doing everything possible to bring the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by daesh and other forces to the attention of the international criminal court, in a comprehensive strategy to combat extremist and terrorist violence and its sponsors and financiers.
mr president, the european union's foreign policy is gangrenous from one readmission agreement to another. to make development aid dependent on the number of returnees accepted by a country is obscene! it is the commission itself which classifies the situation in afghanistan as worsening in documents on which it refuses to comment. how can afghanistan, with millions of internally displaced people and millions of refugees in the neighbourhood, take in these people who are supposedly not eligible for asylum in the european union? the vicious circle will not break those who have returned by force. unless they can stay in afghanistan, where we're forcibly returning them. if they run for their lives, we are fuelling the traffickers' business, we are jeopardising the very security of the european union, we are totally discrediting europe. how can you even think of using development aid funds to build a terminal at kabul airport specifically to handle returnees?
mr president, by omitting the eu's direct and indirect historical responsibilities for the destruction of afghanistan, the creation, training and financing of the extremist forces that destabilise the country and the region, this agreement is in fact serving the objectives of your criminal migration policy, in clear violation of international law, in particular the principle of non-refoulement, the principle of protection against collective expulsion and the right to seek asylum. the united nations itself is warning of the worsening of the very serious situation of hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons and of hundreds of thousands of returnees, including tens of thousands of children, not only from pakistan but also from the european union. an agreement that allows the return of unaccompanied children, in violation of the european union's own commitments to safeguard and ensure the best interests of the child. we have repeatedly said that the european union is today one of the best examples of the violation of human rights, not only on its own territory but also in third countries. mr. avramopoulos, you should be ashamed of yourself!
madam president, the so-called elections in belarus were not free and transparent. instead of sending critics to jail, the government now fines them with administrative fines amounting to several average salaries. the 2 supposedly opposition mps in the "parliament" are appointed by the dictator lukachenko who expects to receive aid and funding in exchange for a pseudo-democratic change. you can only fool who you want to. opposition representatives believe that the european union sanctions have been recklessly lifted, without reflecting any democratic progress. we must listen to them and help them, and here the european political parties and their foundations have an important role to play. we must support the opposition in belarus, organize joint projects, help them to come together and be more effective in the fight for democratic freedoms. the european union must be alert and audibly critical of human rights violations, and press for changes in electoral legislation so that the authorities stop restricting freedom of expression and the press and the activities of parties and civil society associations.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is also the right to disagree, this is called democracy. journalists have the right to report and they also have the right to their opinion. we will not talk about numbers, we have already talked about them here, but the great threat lies in the freedom to think, to speak, to inform, to investigate. turkey is already a dangerous regime, which is leading its people into the abyss of unity thinking. is this a credible partner? not at the moment. the situation of journalists has long been known, but also that of judges, academics, women, banned books, citizens who are silent. if the right to information had been safeguarded, we might have known earlier that there are dozens of children being enslaved in turkey and that instead of taking books, they are holding needles to sew clothes for european multinationals. we are waiting for an explanation from them. turkey's respect for the rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the resolution, the parliament, can make a difference by widening the consensus on a central issue for global security. there are no excuses, and there is no point in making excuses to try to justify the unjustifiable. those who do not support this resolution will have much to explain to the european citizens who care about the future of mankind. the resolution focuses on three points: first, a call for the prohibition of all nuclear weapons and for the constructive participation of the european union in the international conference proposed by the un open working group, approved by the general assembly by a large majority, to negotiate the legally binding instrument for multilateral nuclear disarmament. secondly, to give the high representative a mandate with the power to contribute to these negotiations themselves, in line with the agreed overall strategy. it was mrs mogherini herself who suggested it here in this house. a european parliament resolution could unleash the gag that some member states want to impose on it in this area, which also involves combating one of the most frightening forms of terrorist threat, as commissioner crețu has stressed. thirdly, this is the last opportunity we have to adopt a resolution on nuclear disarmament before the start of the new round of international negotiations. failure to do so will mean being consciously left out of the year in which we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the opening of the signing of the nuclear test ban treaty. these negotiations, if successful, will reinforce the non-proliferation and disarmament objectives and obligations of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, to which even the nuclear states of the european union are signatories, helping to create the conditions for a world without nuclear weapons, with tremendous transformative impact for humanity in the political, economic and, of course, global security spheres. i thank all the colleagues and political groups who have contributed to the very substantial text in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow.
in writing. this resolution is corroded at the base. you are absolutely biased in your analysis of the problem. in launching fierce criticisms of russia or the democratic people's republic of korea, stripping them of their context, regional framework and scale, it omits the role that the us and the european nuclear powers (france and the uk) have taken on in this particular, notably by continuing to renew their nuclear arsenal and the increasingly belligerent role of nato. we note the absence of condemnation of israel's nuclear policy, or of criticism of the eu's growing militarisation, the intention to increase the military budgets of the states, the deepening of the csdp, the claim of a european defence union parallel to nato, the decentralisation of arms by the us by different countries. absurd and yet revealing is the absence of any reference to the imperative defense of peace, as opposed to the apocalyptic scenario that could result from a nuclear conflict on a world scale. the reduction and elimination of nuclear weapons and the creation of a policy banning such devices, the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free europe, and the implementation of initiatives such as the un resolutions of december 2011 and 2012, of nuclear-weapon-free zones in the middle east, the mediterranean and north-east africa, are urgently needed.
madam president, we value volunteering, and in particular the social role it can play in promoting effective solidarity and mutual aid between citizens, by fostering feelings of altruism and genuine generosity, which are contrary to the culture of individualism that the neoliberal policies of the european union help to promote. the report mentions concepts that we do not follow, such as the concept of european citizenship, the european civic service or the european solidarity corps. the relevant role of volunteers in supporting the humanitarian refugee crisis is mentioned. in appreciating this participation, we cannot but denounce that these concepts and entities will contribute to legitimizing and deepening a dynamic that has been used to discredit the role that states and the european union should and should not assume in responding to the very serious humanitarian crisis. finally, it should be noted that volunteering cannot replace jobs, a practice which is unfortunately becoming increasingly common, which justifies the need to strengthen its legal framework and the defence of its social rights.
in writing. ‒ for the eighth time in a row, parliament has given the council discharge for 2014 by a large majority. for the eighth time, the council has disregarded parliament's budgetary powers. it ignored requests for further information, in particular on the council's real estate assets, which were being refurbished and newly built. it ignored the request for greater transparency by continuing to fail to submit the accounts. it has ignored the call for administrative modernisation and for the separation of accounts between the council of ministers and the european council. this approach does not dignify the council and casts a stain of irresponsibility on all the european institutions. once again, the european parliament - and rightly so - reiterates that it will not accept this approach, refusing to grant discharge to this institution and thus postponing the completion of the discharge procedure.
‒ the union institutions must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions and both the european council and the council must be subject to democratic accountability to the citizens of the union as beneficiaries of the general budget of the european union. i regret that the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity reports, which i consider unacceptable and damaging to the reputation of the eu institutions, and that the budget of the european council and the council have not yet been separated, as recommended by parliament in recent discharge resolutions.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. we voted in favour, as we have done on previous occasions. the council has not yet taken a position on the observations made by parliament in its discharge resolution of april 2016 on the trend of the previous years towards an increase in the under-utilisation of appropriations and the transfer of commitments. the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity reports. the report reiterates the call for reports on the progress of the building projects and a detailed breakdown of the expenditure incurred to date. it considers that information should be provided on the costs of delaying completion of the europa building. the report reiterates the request to the council to provide information on the process of administrative modernisation, in particular on the expected impact on the council's budget. calls on the council to adopt a code of conduct as a matter of urgency in order to ensure the integrity of the institution; reiterates its request for the application of rules on whistleblowing; calls on the council to join the eu transparency register in order to ensure the transparency and accountability of the institution.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i vote against the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014
‒ the institutions of the european union must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as union institutions. the european council and the council, as institutions of the union, must be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union, since they are beneficiaries of the general budget of the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that it is regrettable that the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity reports, considering that this is unacceptable and damaging to the reputation of the eu institutions. since it is the competence of parliament to grant discharge in accordance with articles 316, 317 and 319 tfeu, in line with current practice and interpretation, in particular to grant discharge for the implementation of each budget line in order to maintain transparency and ensure democratic accountability to union taxpayers, and since the council has not submitted to parliament the requested documents, it undermines the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency.
in writing. ‒ since the council has not yet taken a position on the observations made by parliament in its discharge resolution of 28 april 2016 on the trend of the previous financial years towards an increase in the under-utilisation of appropriations and the transition of commitments, and has not provided the ep with its annual activity report, we follow the proposal not to grant discharge.
‒ the discharge procedure is the final approval by the european parliament of how the eu budget is implemented for a given year. parliament shall examine the reports of the parliamentary committee on budgetary control and, taking into account the recommendation of the council, shall decide whether to grant, postpone or refuse discharge. the discharge for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 is not yet finalised, as a number of issues relating to section ii - european council and council - remain unresolved. in the documents provided by the council, only three of the 27 questions put by parliament have been given a clear answer. requests for information on real estate assets, the accounts report, among others, were ignored. it is totally regrettable that the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity reports, which is unacceptable and damaging to the reputation of the institutions of the european union, especially in the current conjecture. finally, i remind the council of the commission's view, expressed in 2014, that all institutions should be involved in the follow-up to the observations made by parliament in the context of the discharge exercise and that all institutions should cooperate to ensure the smooth running of the discharge procedure. i therefore support this report.
‒ i voted in favour, considering that the failure of the council to submit the requested documents to parliament is above all a breach of the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency and is becoming a cause for concern, reflecting a certain democratic deficit within the union's institutions. i believe that this situation constitutes a serious breach of the obligations arising from the treaties and that the parties concerned must take the necessary measures to resolve this problem without delay. a review of the treaties and financial regulations may therefore be necessary to clarify the objectives and procedures of the discharge procedure and to define penalties for non-compliance with the rules laid down in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ all european institutions must be governed by criteria of rigour, transparency and accountability with regard to the funds entrusted to them. both the european council and the council, as european institutions, are beneficiaries of the eu's general budget and, in this sense, they must answer to the citizens, which is why it is not understandable that the council has not so far commented on the european parliament's observations on the tendency of previous years to involve an increase in the under-utilisation of appropriations and the transition of commitments. in parallel, there is another set of outstanding issues, related to the failure to provide the annual activity report of both institutions - which tarnishes and destroys the reputation and credibility of all european institutions. in addition, the failure to follow the recommendation for the separation of the european council and the council, as has been proposed in recent discharge resolutions, and the lack of information on the costs of buildings and real estate projects under way, amongst others, are also worrisome facts. in the light of the foregoing and the content of the other observations in the report, i voted to refuse discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 of these two institutions.
in writing. ‒ since the council has not yet taken a position on the observations made by parliament in its discharge resolution of 28 april 2016 on the trend of the previous financial years towards an increase in the under-utilisation of appropriations and the transition of commitments, and has not provided the ep with its annual activity report, we follow the proposal not to grant discharge.
‒ the discharge referred to in this report covers the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014, when the artemis joint undertaking was merged with the eniac joint undertaking, giving rise to itc ecsel, the joint technology initiative in the field of 'electronic components and systems for european leadership'. i am concerned that, according to the court of auditors' report, it was possible to conclude administrative agreements with national funding bodies which did not include provisions on ex post audits and other considerations relating to payment appropriations. i welcome the fact that the process of merging the former companies and creating itc ecsel has made it possible to ascertain the legality and regularity of the operations, by sending relevant information by the national funding bodies which provides reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the operations, allowing me to support this report.
in writing. ‒ eniac was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences in the field of nanoelectronics across the different application areas with a maximum contribution for the 10-year period of eur 450 000 000 allocated by the union to the joint undertaking from the budget of the seventh research framework programme. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included eur 2 356 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 76 500 250 in payment appropriations. the national guarantee procedures of the countries receiving 54,2% of the joint undertaking's grants were monitored until april 2015.
in writing. eniac was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competencies in nanoelectronics across different application areas. eniac is a public-private partnership. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of eniac for the financial year 2014, published a qualified opinion for the fourth consecutive year on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions, on the grounds that the administrative agreements signed with the national funding bodies with regard to the audit of the payment applications related to the projects do not include the practical provisions for ex post audits. according to the court of auditors' report, eniac did not assess the quality of the audit reports submitted by the national funding bodies on the costs of the completed projects. after the evaluation of the audit strategies of three national funding bodies, it was not possible to conclude whether the ex post audits work effectively, as the different methodologies used by the national funding bodies did not allow eniac to calculate a weighted error rate or a residual error rate.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. i therefore vote in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ eniac was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competencies in nanoelectronics across different application areas. eniac is a ppp. although eniac's accounts for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014 reflect faithfully, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the ec accounting officer, we vote against the report as a political sign of our disagreement with the existence of this entity and its format.
‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in the field of nanoelectronics. it started operating autonomously in 2010. eniac and the artemis joint undertaking were merged to create the joint technology initiative in the field of 'electronic components and systems for european leadership'. the merger took place in 2014 and the new initiative became operational in june 2014 and is planned to operate for the next ten years. this report gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. since the required documentation confirms that the conduct of proceedings in the member states provides reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014 faithfully reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ approves the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ eniac was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a research agenda for the development of competence in the field of nanoelectronics. according to the court of auditors' report on the company's annual accounts for the period from 01/01/14 to 26/06/14, a qualified opinion was issued for the fourth consecutive year on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions on the grounds that the administrative agreements signed with the national financing bodies were not assessed by the company in the light of the quality of the audit reports received from the national financing bodies on the costs of the completed projects. however, the company invited the national financing institutions to provide evidence that the application of national procedures provides a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions and this had the desired effect. in the light of the above and based on the understanding of the committee on budgetary control in this matter, i voted in favour of this report giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ eniac was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competencies in nanoelectronics across different application areas. eniac is a ppp. although eniac's accounts for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014 reflect faithfully, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the ec accounting officer, we vote against the report as a political sign of our disagreement with the existence of this entity and its format.
‒ the discharge referred to in this report covers the period from 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014, when the artemis joint undertaking was merged with the eniac joint undertaking, giving rise to itc ecsel, the joint technology initiative in the field of 'electronic components and systems for european leadership'. i am concerned that, according to the court of auditors' report, it was possible to conclude administrative agreements with national funding bodies which did not include provisions on ex post audits. this is relevant because the different audit practices did not allow artemis to calculate a weighted error rate, nor a residual error rate, which is significantly important for assessing the costs of the completed projects. these doubts about the conformity of the operations prompted the postponement of the release. i welcome the fact that the process of merging the former companies and creating itc ecsel has made it possible to ascertain the legality and regularity of the operations by sending relevant information by the national funding bodies. this allows for a well-considered decision. i welcome the establishment of internal control standards and an internal audit structure by itc ecsel. i therefore support this report.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. however, the court of auditors issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions on the grounds that the administrative agreements concluded with the national funding bodies, as regards the audit of payment claims relating to projects, do not include practical provisions on ex post audits.
in writing. artemis was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded computing systems in different application areas. artemis is a public-private partnership. when we voted on the report on the setting up of this company, we expressed doubts and reservations about its creation, operation and management, which were already linked to the use of public capital in the service of private interests. it is noted that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of artemis for the financial year 2014, published a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, on the grounds that the administrative agreements concluded with the national funding bodies, as regards the audit of the payment applications related to the projects, do not include practical provisions on ex post audits. according to the court of auditors, artemis failed to take any action in relation to some of the internal control rules on financial information and reporting. artemis did not assess the quality of the audit reports sent by the national funding bodies on the costs of the completed projects.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. i therefore vote in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas. although, according to the report, it presents the accounts in accordance with the above, it should be noted that artemis is a public-private partnership. that is why we abstained.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. artemis started to operate autonomously in october 2009. artemis and the eniac joint undertaking were merged to create a joint technology initiative in the field of 'electronic components and systems for european leadership'. the merger took place in 2014 and the new initiative became operational in june 2014 and is planned to operate for the next ten years. this report gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in so far as the required documentation confirms that the conduct of the proceedings in the member states provides a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions, i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour, considering the objective of the artemis joint undertaking to be important, namely to establish and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to allow the emergence of new markets and social applications. the joint undertaking's accounts for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014 reflect fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 26 june 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ approves the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 with the objective of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of information systems, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the activities referred to in article 3 of this regulation. according to the information made available, the accounts of the joint undertaking for the period from january to june 2014 reflect fairly, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the commission's accounting rules, its financial position and the results of its operations and cash flows for that period. although no action has been taken on some of the control standards for financial reporting, ecsel itc has made substantial progress in implementing the internal control standards and audit structure and i therefore voted in favour of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas. although, according to the report, it presents the accounts in accordance with the above, it should be noted that artemis is a public-private partnership. that is why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall, in all material respects, faithfully reflect the financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. in this regard, i support the marinescu report, which authorises the director of the european joint undertaking for itre and the development of fusion energy to be discharged from the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the final budget for the financial year 2014 included eur 1 168 800 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 567 600 000 in payment appropriations. the implementation rates for commitment and payment appropriations were 100% and 88,5% respectively, however the implementation rate for payment appropriations in relation to the initial 2014 budget was only 73%.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. the members of this company are euratom, represented by the european commission, the euratom member states and third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. iter is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy. the iter council conclusions of june 2016 confirm that the iter project is now on the right track, allowing for a robust, realistic and detailed proposal of the timetable and associated costs up to the first plasma (2025), support the updated integrated timetable, indicate that the successful completion of all project stages, on or before the planned timetable, is a positive indicator of the collective capacity of the iter organisation and the national agencies to continue to meet the updated integrated timetable, and underline that greater efficiency in decision-making processes, a better understanding of risks and greater rigor in meeting commitments will help the iter project to maintain its current positive momentum. our vote on this report is inseparable from our position on the iter project.
‒ all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. i therefore vote in favour of the discharge to be given to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy a discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the iter project is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy. according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. its constituent members are eurotom, represented by the commission, the euratom member states and third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of nuclear fusion. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall be kept up to date and shall be kept under review. this report authorises the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy to be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the annual accounts of the joint undertaking faithfully reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i would stress the progress made by the iter council, according to which, on the one hand, an effort to concentrate on the essentials through the first plasma should effectively limit the risks associated with the iter project and, on the other hand, the updated integrated timetable is, in technical terms, the best solution to move forward to the first plasma, which will mark the completion of the main assembly and commissioning phases of the tokamak and the supporting facilities.
in writing. ‒ grants the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (the joint undertaking) was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and started its autonomous operation in 2008. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are prepared in accordance with the rules on financial transparency laid down in the financial regulation. due to the challenges currently facing the iter project, the new director-general of the organisation has presented to the iter council an action plan including specific measures addressing the issues currently affecting the development of this project. the commission has also concluded that the project is in line with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment, and that the union's policy on the environment is in line with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment.
‒ the iter project is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy. according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the marinescu report for agreeing to the discharge for iter and the development of fusion energy. i would stress my support for the formula of joint ventures that combine private institutes and public partnerships in support of research through synergies that can accelerate the introduction of new technologies on the market, provided they bring clear added value for european citizens. the iter joint undertaking in particular seeks to cover the areas of air traffic control, low-carbon energy, nanotechnology, aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. i would point out that the iter project is currently facing challenges that affect its development and that it is therefore necessary to implement the measures set out in the iter organisation action plan in order to successfully complete all the project phases.
‒ iraq, along with syria, has been one of the countries most affected by the incursions of the so-called islamic state. the terror and slaughter that has been sown in this region is the cause of the largest number of displaced people since the second world war. this offensive against daesh is, however, of particular importance because it is attacking its last major stronghold in iraq. not only is mosul the second most important city in iraq, but because of the ethnic and religious diversity of this region, it is the paradigmatic example of the destruction wrought by the occupation. the effort made by the us-led coalition, in this case with the support of the iraqi army and the peshmerga forces of the kurdish regional government, is commendable. however, it is crucial to safeguard the future of this region now by guaranteeing humanitarian aid, a state which can guarantee the security of the territory and which respects the numerous minorities. only then can stability be restored to the region. the european union must play a key role here. i think it's clear the moral duty is beyond the geostrategic importance.
‒ according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), more than 1.5 million people are at imminent risk of displacement in mosul as a direct consequence of the operation to retake the area. the eu has so far provided €134 million in humanitarian aid to iraq, including €50 million for mosul. i think it is important to redouble our efforts to stabilize the liberated areas. i strongly condemn the violence and mass executions that continue to be perpetrated by is in iraq and the 'draconian regime' it has imposed in mosul, and call for full respect for the rights of the different ethnic and religious minorities in the country, in particular the yazidis, the chaldeans/syrians/assyrians and the turkmens.
‒ this resolution does not put into context the instability that iraq has been experiencing since the invasion of the country in 2003, in violation of international law, nor the responsibilities that the us and the eu have in the destruction and destabilisation of the country. the alleged fight against the islamic state has violated iraq's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and the crisis in the country, with its conflict between different ethnic groups and foreign interference and interference in the country, is in fact jeopardising its independence and sovereignty. turkey's role in iraq in defending its political, economic and geostrategic interests should also be mentioned. we also note that when mosul has been under occupation for two years now, without any initiative to liberate it, it is at this very moment that it is moving forward against a city which also plays a role in the syrian conflict. which could make you link an alleged humanitarian intervention with military objectives related to the syrian conflict.
‒ the iraqi army, with the support of the international coalition against isil/daesh and the kurdish regional government (krg) peshmerga forces and the popular mobilization forces, launched an operation to liberate mosul, iraq's second largest city, and many towns and villages in the isil/daesh 'mosul corridor'. 0020. i support the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isil/daesh, this operation is a decisive element of an ongoing global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on the islamic state. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in view of the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isil/daesh, which is a decisive element of a global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on the islamic state, it is essential to fully respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of iraq. i believe that the iraqi authorities must take concrete steps to protect the civilian population during the campaign, including through effective command and control of the militias and taking all necessary precautions to avoid civilian casualties and human rights violations during the offensive, and that the forces on the ground must respect international humanitarian law and human rights. it is vital to ensure safety in a timely and effective manner through routes. i call on the european union, the united nations and the entire international community to work with the national and regional governments of the republic of iraq to oversee the reintegration of all iraqis and ethnic and religious minorities who have been displaced. i support the rapporteur's call for the eeas, the member states and the international community to give their practical and diplomatic support to a sustainable and inclusive post-conflict structure for this region.
‒ the resolution does not put into context the instability that iraq has been experiencing since the invasion of the country in 2003, in violation of international law, nor the responsibilities that the us and the eu have in the destruction and destabilisation of the country. the alleged fight against the islamic state has violated iraq's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and the crisis in the country, with its conflict between different ethnic groups and foreign interference and interference in the country, is in fact jeopardising its independence and sovereignty. turkey's role in iraq in defending its political, economic and geostrategic interests should also be mentioned. we also note that when mosul has been under occupation for two years now, without any initiative to liberate it, it is at this very moment that it is moving forward against a city which also plays a role in the syrian conflict. which could make you link an alleged humanitarian intervention with military objectives related to the syrian conflict.
‒ the situation in mosul is indeed worrying. according to accounts from residents who managed to escape, the regime imposed by isis brought hunger, terror and despair to the residents of this iraqi city. mosul is a multi-ethnic city, where a sunni arab majority lives side by side with chaldeans/syrians/assyrians, kurds, yazidis, shabak, kakais and turkmen (shiites and sunnis), making the presence of isis, which proudly commits genocidal crimes against ethnic and religious minorities in that territory, a criminal act in itself. support the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isis; believing that this operation constitutes an important element of a global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on isis. in addition to the liberation of mosul, it is essential to ensure the restoration of the rule of law and basic services such as health care, electricity and education in the liberated areas, as well as to ensure humanitarian aid and security in the territory. i strongly condemn the violence and mass executions that continue to be perpetrated by isis and this time i support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as daesh has imposed a draconian regime in mosul and according to reports from residents who have recently escaped, the population is hungry and desperate to be liberated. the resolution stresses that the eu should continue to support the efforts of the iraqi authorities to establish a peaceful and stable government in the region. guaranteeing the legitimate right of ethnic and religious minorities to political participation and the restoration of their property rights as well as to peaceful coexistence and full respect for the rights of different ethnic and religious minorities. the necessary security conditions must also be ensured for those who have been forced to leave their homeland or to move, so as to make their right to return to their homeland effective as soon as possible.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the house to approve the commission's proposal. the proposal calls on the parties to the conflict to open humanitarian corridors to help the civilian population and at the same time to prevent it from being used as a human shield. the european parliament is calling once again for the rights of the various ethnic and religious minorities in iraq, such as the yazidis, to whom the two women to whom the european parliament awarded the 2016 sakharov prize for freedom of expression belong. this climate of violence and atrocious executions, which the islamic state continues to perpetrate systematically and violently, must be the object of our deepest repudiation and strongest condemnation, since the crimes are committed against children, women and the elderly, who are usually used as human shields against the ongoing military operations. it is absolutely vital to stop this barbarity, and that is the spirit of this resolution, by calling on the parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and by advocating that these war crimes and crimes against humanity be duly tried by the international criminal court.
‒ mosul is a multiethnic city, where a sunni arab majority lives side by side with chaldeans/syrians/assyrians, kurds, yazidis, shabak, kakais and turkmen (shi'ites and sunnis). the areas surrounding the city also have a history of ethno-religious diversity, with a concentration of christians in the nineveh plain, yazidis around the sinjar mountains, and muslim turkmens in tal afar. we follow the humanitarian concerns in the reports. however, these concerns do not fail to carry a good deal of cynicism. because these minorities lived in peace before the criminal operations of the united states, nato and the european union which have now destabilized the whole region. we continue to believe that the only solution is to end support for the terrorist gangs that infest the region and to give way to a political solution that respects international law.
‒ the attempted coup in turkey in july this year had a traumatic effect on the turkish regime and deeply disturbed turkish society. this resolution strongly condemns this event and supports the legitimate institutions of turkey, a key partner of the eu. this does not mean, however, that the european union can condone the crackdown on freedom of expression by the turkish authorities following the coup attempt, by arresting dozens of journalists and writers, most of whom have not been formally charged. pressure on journalists and the media was already being felt before the events of july. i cannot therefore agree more with a resolution calling on the turkish government to uphold the rule of law and to restrict emergency measures to full respect for the rule of law, calling for the release of journalists detained without conclusive evidence and for the reopening of media outlets closed on the basis of inconsistent allegations.
‒ i reiterate the premise of this resolution, so that there is no doubt: i deplore coups d'état against legitimately elected institutions and i regret the victims resulting from the attempt in turkey in july 2016. furthermore, i recognise that terrorism in the broadest sense is a threat to that country. however, neither that nor this can be used to violate the core of the fundamental freedoms of turkish citizens, nor to threaten the rule of law. it is therefore unacceptable that journalists are arrested without charge, that 150 media outlets are closed, that journalists and their families are threatened for dissent in the name of security. let's be clear: freedom of the press and expression is a non-negotiable value. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
‒ according to official data, 89 journalists were detained during the first six weeks of the state of emergency and 104 media outlets were closed, leaving more than 2300 journalists without jobs, and at least 330 journalists had their professional licenses revoked. there are also multiple systematic violations of press freedom before the coup attempt and the subsequent declaration of a state of emergency, the most notorious being the investigation of a turkish newspaper for terrorism and espionage. i agree that turkey must respect all the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and that it must put an end to discrimination against citizens in respect of freedom of expression and other fundamental rights.
‒ this resolution is based on the coup d'état that took place in turkey in july and addresses the situation of persecution and imprisonment of journalists and writers for alleged links to the coup. it also criticises the closure of newspapers and other publications which are considered to be anti-government. the resolution essentially follows the official eu line. it recognised the legitimacy of the turkish government to react to the situation, but considered that this could not be a pretext for persecuting the opposition and restricting civil and political rights. the concern not to attack the eu's privileged relations with turkey is evident. look at the shameful eu-turkey deal on refugees; the importance that turkey is playing in the syrian war; the fact that turkey is a member of nato. so there are many reasons why the tone of the resolution is affected, compared with other resolutions on other situations in the world. the complexity of the situation calls for caution. there's still a lot of uncertainty surrounding this coup. it is true that repression has increased, but it existed before the coup and the eu conveniently turned a blind eye to it. there are many conflicting interests revolving around the situation in turkey.
‒ on 15 july 2016, an attempted coup d'état took place in turkey, which left more than 250 people dead and more than 2 100 injured. a free and pluralistic press is an essential element of any democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary. i therefore condemn the way in which many journalists have been treated in turkey following the attempted coup there. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
‒ i support the rapporteur's position in strongly condemning the attempted coup d'état in turkey on 15 july 2016 and the support for turkey's legitimate institutions. the high number of victims is regrettable, and i express my sympathy to the victims and their families. i believe that this failed military coup attempt cannot be used as a pretext for the turkish government to further suppress legitimate and peaceful opposition and to prevent the peaceful exercise of freedom of expression by journalists and the media through disproportionate and illegal actions and measures. it is vital that the eu lobbies the turkish authorities for the release of journalists and media workers who are being detained without irrefutable evidence of criminal activity, including well-known journalists such as nazli ilicak, sahin alpay, asli erdogan, murat aksoy, ahmet altan and mehmet altan. it is imperative to avoid the detention of journalists on the basis of the content of their work, including in cases where they are the subject of a formal charge, and the need to ensure that pre-trial detention remains an exception.
the resolution strongly condemns the coup and expresses solidarity with the victims. it recognised the legitimacy of the turkish government to react to the situation, but considered that this could not be a pretext for persecuting the opposition and restricting civil and political rights. he calls for the release of those who are imprisoned, does not inculpate them with any kind of evidence. he's calling for the reopening of closed newspapers. he calls for a restriction of the state of emergency so that it does not serve as a justification for attacking freedom of expression and other rights. it called for the eeas to monitor all the practical consequences of this situation. the ep's approach to third countries is careful and moderate, although it maintains a profile of subtle interference. a position which is linked to the stage of contradictions that turkey has always been at the service of the imperialist powers for the control of the middle east. on the other hand, it is important to stress that, if there has been an increase in repression in turkey, it existed before the coup, and that none of the main actors in turkey, external or internal, have any real concerns about the rights of the workers and the turkish people.
‒ i voted in favour, because i consider it imperative to defend democracy with an unconditional commitment to human rights and the rule of law, which is important, as is cooperation between the eu, the council of europe and turkey in this area. restrictions on the media and pressures on journalists were already considerable before the failed coup attempt, which according to the committee to protect journalists, the turkish authorities closed the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, magazines and publishing and distribution companies in the aftermath of the coup attempt, leaving more than 2 300 journalists and media workers without jobs. this resolution urges the government of turkey to delimit the scope of the emergency measures so that they cannot continue to be used to restrict freedom of expression and that investigations into alleged involvement in the coup attempt should be carried out in accordance with the law, impartially and on the basis of irrefutable evidence and not on the basis of guilt by association, which may lead to collective punishment.
‒ the deterioration of freedom of expression in turkey has continued to worsen, especially after the attempted coup d'état on 15 july this year. 130 journalists and writers were arrested. authorities ordered the closure of 3 news agencies, 16 tv channels, 23 radio stations, 45 newspapers, 15 magazines and 29 publishers. freedom of speech is also the right to disagree. this is called democracy. journalists have the right to inform and also have the right to have an opinion, risking turkey becoming a dangerous regime that leads its people to the precipice of single thinking. is this a credible partner? not right now! and it is not just the situation of journalists, which has long been known, but also that of judges, women, banned books, citizens who are silent. if the right to information had been safeguarded, we might have known sooner about the dozens of children enslaved in turkey, who instead of taking books hold needles to sew clothes for various european multinationals. we are waiting for an explanation from them. turkey's respect for the rule of law.
‒ in july 2016, turkey suffered an attempted coup d'état that killed around 250 people and injured more than 2100. this was an attack on democratic values, human rights and the rule of law, which we must not and cannot ignore. it is also a violent blow to freedom of expression - and particularly to freedom of the press - as the turkish police have arrested more than 100 journalists and writers since the coup, without any basis or formal charge of any crime, without access to a defence, kept in totally inhumane conditions, in a climate of constant threat, terror and torture. the eu cannot tolerate these gross violations of the basic principles of a state based on the rule of law, the primacy of democratic governance and respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. in this respect, i was absolutely in favour of the adoption of this resolution, which strongly condemns the illegal detentions and the violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of journalists, writers and other media workers in turkey. i support the position of urging the turkish authorities to release the detainees immediately, in what should be a free and democratic society.
in writing. the resolution is based on the coup d'état that took place in turkey in july this year and addresses the situation of persecution and imprisonment of journalists and writers for alleged links to the coup. it also criticises the closure of newspapers and other publications which are considered to be anti-government. there are about 130 media professionals currently detained, about 64 have been released, and those who are still detained without any proven charges, without the right to a lawyer and who are being ill-treated. the resolution focuses excessively on the coup and does not address the eu's privileged relations with turkey. see the eu-turkey agreement on refugees and the role of turkey, a nato member, in the syrian war. the complexity of the situation calls for a certain degree of detachment, which should not be confused with support for or condemnation of the turkish regime. there are many conflicting interests revolving around the situation in turkey.
‒ the global security situation and the deterioration of the security environment around the european union pose serious risks of the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and of their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors, with serious concern being expressed about possible violations of the medium-range nuclear forces treaty, which has created tensions in relations within nato. i support this resolution because i consider it necessary to move towards the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. i am in favour of deepening the dialogue with all the nuclear-weapon states with a view to pursuing a common programme aimed at the progressive reduction of the stockpile of nuclear warheads and the adoption of measures to reduce the risk of explosions and their transfer from deployment zones to storage sites. to welcome the results achieved by the un open working group on the advancement of multilateral nuclear disarmament negotiations, the progress achieved by the preparatory commission of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty organization with regard to the completion and effective implementation of the international monitoring system. i welcome the inclusion of nuclear non-proliferation clauses in the agreements between the eu and third countries.
‒ the security situation in the world, and in particular in the eu, has deteriorated significantly in recent years, becoming more unstable, dangerous and unpredictable. international peace, security and stability are seriously threatened by a number of developments, including the deterioration of relations between nuclear-weapon states such as the russian federation and the united states of america, india and pakistan, as well as by the continued development of nuclear capabilities by north korea. i am deeply concerned about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and its neighbourhood, which could lead not only to the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent, but also to their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors. i consider it essential that all nuclear-weapon states take concrete interim measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions, in particular by reducing the operationality of nuclear weapons and their transfer from deployment areas to storage sites, by reducing the role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines and by rapidly reducing all types of nuclear weapons.
the resolution is corroded to the core. you are absolutely biased in your analysis of the problem. in launching fierce criticisms of russia or the democratic people's republic of korea, stripping them of their context, regional framework and scale, it omits the role that the us and the european nuclear powers (france and the uk) have taken on in this particular, namely by continuing to renew their nuclear arsenal, and the increasingly belligerent role of nato. we note the absence of condemnation of israel's nuclear policy, or criticism of the eu's increasing militarization, the intention to increase the military budgets of the states, the deepening of the csdp, the claim of a european defence union parallel to nato, the decentralization of arms by the us by different countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is an urgent need to reduce and eliminate nuclear weapons and to develop a policy to eliminate such devices, to create a europe free of nuclear weapons, and to implement initiatives such as the un resolutions of december 2011 and 2012 on nuclear-weapon-free zones in the middle east, the mediterranean and north-east africa.
in writing. ‒ the global security situation, and in particular that of the eu, has deteriorated significantly in recent years, becoming more unstable, dangerous and unpredictable. international peace, security and stability are seriously threatened by a number of developments, including the deterioration of relations between nuclear-weapon states such as the russian federation and the united states of america, india and pakistan, as well as by the continued development of nuclear capabilities by north korea. we must fight these threats or else we shall be faced in the not too distant future with situations very dangerous to world peace. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i share the rapporteur's concern at the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which may lead not only to the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent, but also to the possible proliferation between state and non-state actors, and to the failure to implement measures for effective disarmament and non-proliferation. i believe it is essential that all nuclear-weapon states take concrete interim measures to reduce the risk of nuclear explosions, in particular by reducing the operationality of nuclear weapons and their transfer from deployment areas to storage sites, by reducing the role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines and by rapidly reducing all types of nuclear weapons. the presentation of the eu global strategy can be seen as a step in transforming the union into a driving force for the strengthening and advancement of multilateral nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation agreements.
the resolution is corroded by a nuclear defect. it's absolutely biased, ignoring a global perspective to the issue. while it is fiercely critical of russia or the democratic people's republic of korea, stripping them of their regional context and framework, it omits the role that the us and the european nuclear powers (france and the uk) have played in this particular, namely by continuing to renew their nuclear arsenal, alongside an increasingly close encirclement of russia by nato. we note the complete absence of condemnation of israel's nuclear policy, or the absence of criticism of the eu's growing militarisation, of the intention to increase the military budgets of the states, of the deepening of the csdp, of the claim of a european defence union parallel to nato, of the decentralisation of arms by the us to different countries. on the other hand, it is absurd, and yet revealing, that there is no reference to the urgent need to defend peace, as opposed to the apocalyptic scenario that could result from a nuclear conflict on a world scale. for these reasons we voted against.
‒ the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, signed in 1968, is an important historical milestone, but it is also a binding legal instrument whose purpose is to prevent the expansion of the use of nuclear weapons and associated technology, while promoting cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy. international security is currently facing a number of challenges in the area of the implementation of the treaty. in this connection, i would point out the deterioration in relations between two of the nuclear powers, mainly russia and the united states, with russia having recently suspended the agreement on the disposal of plutonium. the security environment across europe and its neighbourhood has increased in recent years, becoming volatile, dangerous and unpredictable, forcing member states to deal with a wide range of conventional and unconventional threats. i support the work of the international atomic energy agency, which, through cooperation, promotes the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technologies. i am voting in favour and i call for the intensification of cooperation efforts on nuclear safety, in order to minimise the risks of such products falling into the hands of terrorist groups and taking as a major objective the destruction of all nuclear weapons existing on the planet.
‒ i voted in favour, considering that the global security situation, and in particular that of the eu, has significantly deteriorated in recent years, becoming more unstable, dangerous and unpredictable, as hybrid, conventional and unconventional threats are generated by state and non-state actors, both at regional and global level. international peace, security and stability are seriously threatened by a number of developments, including the deterioration of relations between nuclear-weapon states such as the russian federation and the united states of america, india and pakistan, as well as by the continued development of nuclear capabilities by north korea. it is regrettable that since the entry into force of the new start treaty in 2011, there have been no new negotiations on an urgent reduction of deployed and undeployed nuclear warheads, including, as previously decided by the us and russia, measures to reduce and eliminate tactical and short-range nuclear weapons considered sub-strategic or non-strategic nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ the global security situation, and in particular that of the eu, has significantly deteriorated in recent years, becoming more unstable, dangerous and unpredictable with the presence of hybrid, conventional and unconventional threats generated by state and non-state actors, both at regional and global levels. international peace, security and stability are seriously threatened by recent developments - the deterioration of external relations between nuclear-weapon states being one of them. it is therefore essential that states possessing such weapons take concrete measures to reduce the risks associated with their possession, and it is incumbent on the eu as a world power to act as a mediator in resolving the various conflict situations around the globe. it is regrettable that nuclear weapons are returning to the strategic planning of the states that possess them. i also believe that it is urgent that europe should withdraw its existing nuclear arsenals. in this way, we will make a positive contribution to the existence of more nuclear-weapon-free zones, promoting compliance with non-proliferation and disarmament obligations. i think that this is a matter which requires an immediate solution and i therefore voted in favour of this proposal (which i was the originator of).
‒ the npt is a landmark international treaty which aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons technologies by promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and the cause of nuclear disarmament on a global scale. the report recognises the right of recognised nuclear weapon states to maintain their nuclear deterrent arsenals as an important element of national security, given the continued existence of large nuclear arsenals worldwide, the possibility of nuclear proliferation and the risk of increased instability and international tensions. but curiously, it only implicitly recognizes this right to the western powers. hence the persecutory rhetoric regarding russia and north korea, which resembles the axis of evil speech. it is not by painting a world in two colours that we will be able to tread the paths of peace and social progress. in this sense, this report represents a step backwards in the construction of a political solution of peace which respects the sovereignty of the peoples.
‒ volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and human development, and is an essential instrument for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue. i support this resolution because i believe that a coordinated volunteering policy is lacking in europe and i support the establishment of a european legal framework for volunteering which defines a volunteering statute with rights and responsibilities and which facilitates mobility and the recognition of skills. carried out by some 100 million european citizens, volunteering not only promotes solidarity and social inclusion, creating social capital, but also contributes to the production of approximately 5% of gdp. i therefore believe that it is essential to create a favourable environment for volunteering, either through its promotion by the member states or by the european institutions, which ensures the safe and sustainable operation of volunteering infrastructures, by giving substance to the idea that volunteering benefits from eu grants as part-financing. finally, i share the view that the communication strategy for the european voluntary service should be redefined and improved by the commission and that the current application system should also be simplified.
‒ about 100 million citizens of all ages are volunteers and their work contributes to the production of approximately 5% of the eu's gdp. in 2016, the european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary and that in these 20 years, 100 000 volunteers have been supported. volunteering is carried out of one's own free will, by choice and personal motivation, without the purpose of obtaining financial consideration. that said, it should be borne in mind that volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and human development and is an essential instrument for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values.
‒ we value volunteering as a contribution to the promotion of effective solidarity and mutual aid between citizens, consolidating feelings of altruism and genuine generosity, contributing to social integration and dissipating feelings of discrimination. the report refers to concepts that are not accompanying, such as the concept of european citizenship, the european civic service, or the european solidarity corps. the relevant role of volunteers in supporting the humanitarian refugee crisis is mentioned. in appreciating this participation, we cannot fail to point out that these concepts and entities will contribute to legitimizing and deepening a dynamic that has been used to discredit the role that states and the european union should and should not assume in responding to the very serious humanitarian crisis. improving the development of volunteering also involves promoting and supporting the activities of non-profit organisations, including many others: the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreational, cultural, youth or child-oriented associations. finally, it should be noted that volunteering cannot replace jobs, a practice which is unfortunately becoming increasingly common, which justifies the need to strengthen its legal framework and the defence of its social rights.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, the european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary and that in these 20 years, 100 000 volunteers have been supported. volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and human development and is an essential instrument for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values; stresses that its benefits are also recognised in voluntary actions with third countries, as it is a strategic instrument for promoting mutual understanding and intercultural relations. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ volunteering is an expression of solidarity that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship, human development and is essential for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue. i am in favour of the creation of a european framework for volunteering, which defines rights and responsibilities and facilitates mobility and the recognition of skills. i support the rapporteur's position in calling on member states to implement concrete validation processes under the 2012 council recommendation to ensure better understanding and comparability of skills and experience, and that any future initiatives related to the european skills passport and europass place greater importance on volunteering as informal and non-formal learning. i think it is important that member states which have not yet done so should set up adequately funded national voluntary service programmes and improve access to quality information on volunteering opportunities at national and local level. the em should promote evs in their education and academic systems as a tool for disseminating education for solidarity and civic participation among young people.
‒ we value volunteering as a contribution to the promotion of effective solidarity and mutual aid between citizens, consolidating feelings of altruism and genuine generosity, contributing to social integration and dissipating feelings of discrimination. the report refers to concepts that are not accompanying, such as the concept of european citizenship, the european civic service, or the european solidarity corps. the relevant role of volunteers in supporting the humanitarian refugee crisis is mentioned. in appreciating this participation, we cannot fail to point out that these concepts and entities will contribute to legitimizing and deepening a dynamic that has been used to discredit the role that states and the european union should and should not assume in responding to the very serious humanitarian crisis. improving the development of volunteering also involves promoting and supporting the activities of non-profit organisations, including many others: the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreational, cultural, youth or child-oriented associations. finally, it should be noted that volunteering cannot replace jobs, a practice which is unfortunately becoming increasingly common, which justifies the need to strengthen its legal framework and the defence of its social rights.
‒ i am very proud to highlight the celebration of 20 years of the european voluntary service (evs), a european programme that has supported over 100 000 young people in their noble and supportive decision to volunteer. volunteering is part of the individual's will, choice and motivation, without the pursuit of financial compensation. volunteering makes a decisive contribution to numerous social, humanitarian and environmental causes at european and international level. it is important to remember that by volunteering, participants acquire a different set of skills that should be recognised as non-formal education. in order to allow the evs to continue to grow, it is necessary to ensure the strengthening of intermediary mechanisms and structures by means of a legal framework that identifies the rights and responsibilities of volunteers as well as of the organisations that host them. i support the idea of simplifying the application process for evs programmes in order to facilitate and speed up the process and to allow more young people to participate in these types of programmes. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as volunteering is a key aspect of active citizenship and democracy, as well as personal training, which embodies european values such as solidarity and non-discrimination, and also contributes to the development of participatory democracy and the promotion of human rights inside and outside the eu. this resolution, among other things, calls on national, regional and local authorities to ensure adequate funding, to simplify administrative procedures and to provide fiscal incentives for voluntary organisations and networks, especially those of small size and with limited resources. stresses the need to improve follow-up and reinforce the local dimension after a volunteering experience abroad, by providing support not only before departure but also after return, in terms of post-orientation and post-integration training. it also stresses the need to provide quality mentoring throughout the process through responsible management of volunteers and awareness of their own responsibilities towards the organisation and the community.
in writing. ‒ mr president, volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and human development and is an essential instrument for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values. its benefits are also recognised in voluntary actions with third countries, as it is a strategic instrument for promoting mutual understanding and intercultural relations. it is important to establish a european legal framework for volunteering that defines a volunteering status with rights and responsibilities and that facilitates mobility and the recognition of skills.
in writing. ‒ the in 2016, the european voluntary service (evs) celebrates its 20th anniversary and the number of 100 000 volunteers (who have already joined this programme). volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility - and often self-sacrifice - which contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and human development, and is also an essential instrument for social inclusion and cohesion, as well as for training, education and intercultural dialogue, mobility and, at the same time, for the dissemination of european values. in europe, about 100 million citizens are volunteers, a job that represents 5% of the eu's gdp, and this economic value must be taken into account. it is therefore essential to establish a european legal framework for these actions, defining the status of volunteering, with rights and responsibilities, aimed at facilitating mobility and the recognition of skills, alongside a more coordinated european volunteering policy. in addition, member states should promote appropriate national programmes, improving volunteering opportunities and conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i agree with this proposal and because i believe in the inestimable social, human and civic value that volunteering adds to the people and organisations involved in it.
‒ the european year of volunteering 2011, strongly supported by the european parliament, was an important political opportunity to highlight the added value of volunteering in europe. it should be remembered, however, that volunteering is carried out of one's own free will, by one's own choice and personal motivation, without the purpose of obtaining financial consideration. in this sense, it should be enhanced by emphasising the solidarity component which is a way of addressing human, social or environmental needs and concerns. however, what we have found is that this concept has been used in a criminal way to provide extreme forms of exploitation through which young people end up working for free, doing what others in the past did for a fee. legislation on this concept, especially at eu level, in such a heterogeneous europe, does not seem appropriate to us. to go there would result in a concept that is too vague and too comprehensive, thus opening the door even further to the abuses that are proliferating there.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on european voluntary service as an essential instrument for inclusion, social cohesion, training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making an important contribution to the dissemination of european values. i would like to highlight the proposal in the resolution to establish a european legal framework for volunteering which defines a volunteering statute with rights and responsibilities and which facilitates mobility and the recognition of skills between member states. i note that there are about 100 million citizens of all ages who are volunteers in the eu, whose work contributes to the production of approximately 5% of gdp. i therefore advocate supporting the idea of allowing time spent on volunteering to benefit from eu grants as part-financing, as recently suggested by the commission in the new proposal for a financial regulation.
‒ the human and social capital of young people is one of europe's greatest assets for the future, and investment is needed in the potential of 90 million young europeans in terms of skills, creativity and diversity. i support the bocskor report which assesses progress in achieving the objectives and priorities of the cooperation framework for the period 2013-2015, analysing the situation of young people and the policy measures adopted by the eu and the member states and proposing concrete measures for the next cycle 2016-2018. i welcome the positive, albeit mitigated, trend in some member states in education indicators, with a decline in early school leaving, an increase in graduates and a reduction in youth unemployment in most member states. however, these figures need to be improved: 13.7 million young people in europe are not working and approximately 27 million are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. we also need to encourage young people to play a more active role in their local communities, to help find employment and to participate in society.
‒ the human and social capital of young people is one of europe's main resources and one of the main guarantees of its future. in general, early school leaving is declining. the figures for the 18-24 age group fell from 13.9% in 2010 to 11.1% in 2014. however, the percentage of early school leavers remains high in spain, italy, malta, portugal and romania. one third of young people in europe (aged 30-34) have a university degree and 82% of 20-24 year olds have completed upper secondary education. although in february 2013 the average level of unemployment among young people (aged 15 to 29) in europe reached a peak of 23,9%, this figure decreased to 20% by november 2015. however, in some ms the situation remains extremely worrying. cooperation in policies related to youth enrichment and volunteering activities and participation in civic life should be further encouraged. these should be complemented by eu funding under the erasmus+ programme and the integration of young people into the labour market and the development of their human capital.
‒ the youth cooperation framework supports the various measures taken by the member states and the eu, including through data collection, mutual learning, exchange of experiences and dialogue with young people. the renewed framework for european cooperation in the field of the eu youth strategy covers the period 2010-2018 and defines eight areas of action, namely: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture. the fields of action selected show a clear ideological orientation from which we differ. the report advocates a youth and society strategy closely linked to the eu2020 strategy. it approaches pertinent problems but almost always in the wrong way, as is the case with the phenomenon of 'brain drain'. there is no reference to the effect of the policies being advocated by the eu on the situation of young people (budget cuts in education and culture, youth unemployment). the report challenges an entire ideological programme on higher education and access to the labour market, and on meeting the needs of enterprises. without prejudice to the positive aspects, for example on the refugee question, the report is bad overall and that is why we voted against it.
‒ this report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy for 2013-2015 presents the results achieved and sets out proposals and priorities for the next cycle, recommending that national, regional, local and eu authorities ensure that the different programmes at european level in the field of youth policies are properly disseminated, implemented and coordinated in order to respond to new needs in the face of future social and educational challenges. however, it also stresses the need to pay particular attention to the participation of young people with special educational needs, vulnerable or marginalised groups, migrants and refugees, both in active participation in the design and implementation of these projects and in the creation of models and policy strategies for youth, both at eu and/or national and local level. young people are the main partners in the definition of projects directly related to their specificity and local needs. in this sense, the strategy will only be effective if it has a bottom-up approach and meets the needs and expectations of all, involving the local community, the education system, sports and cultural associations and even businesses. i voted yes!
‒ the european union presented a european strategy for youth which aimed to create more opportunities for young people in the european framework. i believe that the new youth strategies should involve youth organisations at national and european level, since they are the ones who are most aware of the real needs of young people. i also believe that the european union should focus its strategy on the vectors of mobility, employment and education, since these are the three main areas that young people are looking for at european level and where the eu can make its difference at a strategic level. i therefore welcome this report, hoping that future strategies will focus on key areas to support young people.
‒ the report makes the effectiveness of the youth strategy dependent on alignment with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, seeking a greater framework for youth policies that translates into increased harmonisation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations, in particular the future of the union's external relations. this is the reason why education, and in particular higher education, is subordinated to relations with the business world and its needs, pointing to entrepreneurship and business culture as a solution to the problems facing young people. we have also included some positive aspects, such as multilingualism, equal opportunities, equality between men and women, and the fight against all forms of discrimination. but we distance ourselves from the ideological framework of the report and argue that any strategy for young people cannot be based on the needs of companies and the demands of the market economy. we are also not keeping up with the vision of the causes and solutions to combat youth unemployment and social exclusion, which are out of step with the reality in which young people live. we voted against it.
‒ there is no doubt that the human and social capital of young people, currently 90 million in europe, is one of europe's main resources and one of the main guarantees of its future. the inability to adopt any legislative measures in this area at eu level led to the granting of the open method of cooperation. this method is expressed in the definition of principles and objectives by the relevant ministers of the member states in the framework of the eu council, and it is then up to the member states to decide in what form and what measures they intend to accept and incorporate into their youth strategies. although there is a marked improvement in several indicators, such as the numbers of early school leavers, the number of graduates and the youth unemployment figures, some indicators, such as the existence of 13.7 million neet young people (not working, not studying or not in training) are very worrying to me. because i believe that additional solutions must be found to reduce youth unemployment, improve their quality of life and future prospects, ensure equal opportunities, increase civic awareness and increase their social participation, and prevent violent radicalisation, i support this report.
‒ i voted in favour, because i believe that the human and social capital of young people is one of europe's main assets and one of the main guarantees of its future. the european union and its member states cannot therefore afford to waste the potential inherent in the knowledge, creativity and skills of europe's 90 million young people. the economic crisis has particularly affected young people and disparities between certain categories of young people have also increased, with some of them losing their place in social and civic life. this situation has been exacerbated by the fact that some of these groups are at risk of social inactivity, exclusion and isolation and even violent radicalisation. the eu must seek to encourage, through the framework for cooperation in the field of youth, groups of young people as large and diverse as possible to play an active role in local and global communities, as well as in civic and democratic life. through the cooperation framework we must also help young people to find employment and to participate in society.
‒ the human and social capital of young people is one of europe's main assets and one of the main guarantees of its future. the european union and its member states cannot therefore afford to waste the immense potential inherent in the knowledge, creativity and skills of europe's 90 million young people. the economic crisis has particularly affected young people, exacerbating social inequalities. the youth strategy for 2010-2018 defines eight areas of action with two broad priorities: facilitating the transition from education to work and promoting active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among young people. this last aspect has become particularly important in view of the growing phenomena of radicalization of young people and the need to prevent these unfortunate events. the project will also support the development of a european network of experts in the field of human rights, including the european union's special representative for human rights and the european union's special representative for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition, job-search assistance and the participation of young people in society should also be encouraged. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ no youth strategy can focus on the needs of businesses and the demands of the market economy. that is what the report is pointing to. instead of looking at the causes of youth unemployment, which are also the causes of poverty, social exclusion and a certain kind of delinquency, the report parrots back to the same old solutions which are simply means of increasing exploitation for the benefit of companies. putting the education system at the service of business, making the labour market more flexible, increasing mobility and versatility or even promoting entrepreneurship to exhaustion, this is the neoliberal cassette in all its glory. fortunately, young people are alert, resistant and increasingly mobilised to defend their rights and are, more or less every day, taking their destiny into their own hands.
‒ i voted in favour of the bocskor report because i agree with the broad lines of the youth strategy, in particular the call for young people to be involved in decision-making processes. i would highlight the proposal to channel investment into inclusive education that ensures equal access and opportunity for all young people, regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or sexual orientation. i also stress the need to adopt measures to ensure that the skills acquired by young people in informal settings, particularly in voluntary work, are better recognised. in this context, i would also like to highlight the campaign launched by the european socialist group for an 'action plan for youth'.
‒ rural areas account for more than 77% of the eu's territory and many jobs in these areas depend on agriculture and the agri-food industry. together, agriculture and the agri-food industry account for 6% of eu gdp, 15 million businesses and 46 million jobs. in the context of the current economic crisis, the european union has made employment one of its main priorities and, in this context, the cap must become more effective and see its legitimacy reaffirmed, with a view to maintaining and creating jobs and competitiveness in rural areas, especially in the agricultural sector. i agree that it is necessary to assess the extent to which the cap has an impact on the creation and maintenance of jobs in rural areas, bearing in mind that the vast majority of cap direct payments go to the wealthiest farms, with only 13% of beneficiaries receiving 74% of cap direct payments in 2014.
‒ we support many of the concerns expressed in the report. agriculture is a key sector which, in addition to ensuring the production of food and other agricultural goods essential for our survival, represents a key lever for rural development, which can help to prevent desertification and promote territorial cohesion. agriculture can and must contribute to job creation. although it contains positive aspects, the report is fundamentally lacking in criticism of the current cap, and ends up endorsing the direction it is taking. more than defending job creation, we must defend the quality of this employment and the need to combat the increasing precariousness of agricultural employment. the current cap policy does not contribute to this objective. strong instruments for regulating production are needed, which have been and are being completely dismantled with the successive reforms of the cap. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. it is important to put an end to this succession of free trade agreements with canada, the united states and the mercosur countries. agreements which represent the ruin of small and mediumsized farming and family farming.
‒ this report aims to influence the 2017 cap review and the future reform of the eu's agricultural policy, serving as a starting point for the open discussion on ensuring that the eu's rural areas, in all their diversity, have a future, with a firm emphasis on employment and employment growth in rural areas. this report also calls for the simplification of the cap, reinforcing its social role, paying particular attention to small-scale farming, diversification of rural areas, sufficient funding for rural areas under various european funds, support for young farmers, better inclusion of women in the agricultural sector, etc. this report is critical of the risks to local economies and jobs and therefore against policies to stimulate local production and support european agricultural livelihoods and employment. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, we have seen in many european countries the exodus of farmers from rural areas and a drastic reduction in the incomes of farmers and other agricultural workers, and that employment in agriculture is in permanent decline. i agree with the rapporteur in calling on the member states to give young farmers long-term prospects to cope with the depopulation of rural areas, to implement a comprehensive strategy for generational renewal and, to this end, to make full use of all the possibilities provided for under the new cap to support young farmers and newly established farmers, including outside the family environment, in particular by granting aid to young farmers under the first and second pillars, and to facilitate the establishment in the agricultural sector and the entrepreneurship of farmers over 40 years of age. i support the need to encourage the development, marketing and sale of high quality agricultural products and to take initiatives to open up new markets and to introduce operational programmes and product marketing campaigns in order to ensure the diversification and competitiveness of the european food chain.
‒ agriculture is a key sector which, in addition to ensuring the production of food and other agricultural goods essential for our survival, also represents a key lever for rural development to prevent desertification and promote territorial cohesion. however, it is important to stress first of all the quality of this employment and the need to combat the increasing precariousness of employment in this sector where seasonality often overrides the fundamental rights of those who work. it should be stressed that in order to contribute to job creation, the cap must completely reverse its policy orientation, which has hitherto been based on a liberalizing logic, all of it market-oriented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. it is important to put an end to this succession of free trade agreements with canada, the united states and the mercosur countries which are the ruin of our small and mediumsized family farms.
in writing. ‒ in the european union (eu) today, rural areas account for over 77% of the community territory, and many jobs in these areas - a large percentage of which are not relocatable - depend on agriculture and the agri-food industry. agriculture and the agri-food industry account for 6% of eu gdp, 15 million businesses and 46 million jobs, and thus make up a significant part of the european economy. it is true that many rural areas face a number of challenges, such as low incomes, negative population growth, lack of jobs and a high unemployment rate. the creation of employment in rural areas is one of the challenges of the union and is considered as such in the provisions of the current common agricultural policy of the european union (cap). i think this report is an important one, but i disagree with some of the guidelines presented and i think there are better approaches to promoting job creation in rural areas. i therefore vote against this report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed measures should be implemented in a manner that is compatible with the common market. contrary to what the report suggests, agreements such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement do not pose a threat to job creation and the conditions to support subsistence agriculture. at the same time, it is clear from this report that its author has tried to give it a huge ideological component, reducing what could be a good instrument for the union and its farmers to a mere exercise in demagogy.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the common agricultural policy must contribute more to the creation and long-term maintenance of jobs in rural areas and thus combat unemployment and depopulation. public services in these areas are needed, diversification of production, care for environmental aspects, creation of opportunities for women and young people, tourism opportunities, shorter food supply chains and fair treatment of primary producers. the report includes many measures to strengthen the social dimension.
‒ agriculture in the outermost regions absorbs a significant part of the working population and forms the basis of the regional economy, with positive externalities in other sectors, such as tourism and agro-industry. by its very nature, the search for employment solutions in the outermost regions, in the event of economic contraction, is compromised by the lack of interconnectivity. on the other hand, production costs in these regions are relatively higher than in other areas of the continent. for these reasons, crises in the agricultural sector have had a particularly acute impact on these regions. we therefore call for the agricultural policy to be equipped with the appropriate instruments and for criteria to be applied in the event of a crisis which are adapted to the needs of the outermost regions. the azores, the region from which i come, produces 30% of portuguese milk and the last two years of crisis in the sector have shown the urgency of this need.
‒ agriculture is a key sector which, in addition to ensuring the production of food and other agricultural goods essential for our survival, also represents a key lever for rural development to prevent desertification and promote territorial cohesion. however, it is important to stress first of all the quality of this employment and the need to combat the increasing precariousness of employment in this sector where seasonality often overrides the fundamental rights of those who work. it should be stressed that in order to contribute to job creation, the cap must completely reverse its policy orientation, which has hitherto been based on a liberalizing logic, all of it market-oriented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. it is important to put an end to this succession of free trade agreements with canada, the united states and the mercosur countries which are the ruin of our small and mediumsized family farms.
‒ i voted in favour of the andrieu report because i agree with the need to make full use of all the possibilities provided for in the new cap for creating and retaining jobs in rural areas and for combating unemployment and population decline. i would stress the proposal to adopt a specific strategy for the re-population of honeybees, not only because of the potential for employment in this sector in rural areas, but also because of the need to recover a declining sector which has experienced a high rate of honeybee mortality with disastrous consequences for food security. finally, since it has been found that the vast majority of direct cap payments go to the wealthiest farms, i advocate a more equitable distribution of cap payments to small farmers.
madam president, commissioner dombrovskis, mr president mario draghi, the first thing we must acknowledge in this debate is that the monetary policy of the european central bank has made not only an important but a decisive contribution to defending the euro, stabilising sovereign debt markets, giving a chance to the european economy and countering deflationary pressures. we must value that clearly. we all know that there can be collateral damage from a too long negative interest policy. but it is dangerously unwise to call for a precipitous retreat from monetary policy at this time, which is still a time of uncertainty and turbulence, and which may become, after brexit and the new trump administration, a time of uncontrolled financial speculation in sovereign debt markets. what we expect from the european central bank is a message of stabilizing the markets, a message of decisive intervention to ensure the integrity of the euro area. i ask mr draghi whether this is still the fundamental mission of the ecb at this historic moment in the european economy, when the euro is still under threat. this is very important for the whole euro zone, but also for the countries most threatened by speculation, such as portugal. i would also like to ask you whether, after the results achieved on the economic and budgetary fronts with the assessment of the ratings, portugal is still eligible for the european central bank's asset purchase programme.
mr president, it is now clear that the banking union, which was created to give the financial system stability and to deal with the systemic banks, which are known as 'too big to fail', is nothing but a manoeuvre designed to remove from the national public sphere any possibility of intervention and to impose a series of merger operations between financial institutions, thus aggravating the problem it is supposed to solve. in the case of portugal, the situation is glaring. with the centralisation of all supervisory and resolution functions in the ecb, the largest portuguese banks were eventually sold to foreign groups at the balance price, with the loss being borne by taxpayers, since the resolution fund has only been financed by the portuguese state. it is clear that this banking union does not help to solve any of the problems of economies, with or without a deposit guarantee system, because this banking union is the expression of the domination of the financial system over the political power of the european union, which has long since renounced the defence of the interests of the citizen in order to devote itself to serving the interests of those who actually rule in europe.
mr president, we are facing a further deepening of the single market, extending it to retail financial services. like other initiatives, it is based on concepts which, while apparently aimed at improving the conditions of users, in practice represent another element of harmonization, of federalist deepening, which will serve the big financial interests, facilitating the concentration of wealth and the centralization of economic power. some of the most perverse aspects of this initiative are: liquidation of smaller companies and promotion of pan-european banking oligopoly; increase of profits of large banks, in particular by reduction of operating costs, which include the layoffs of workers, processes facilitated by the digital side and reduction of the physical location of companies; degradation of conditions of direct service to the public and job insecurity; deregulation of the economy and intensification of the free movement of capital; further suppression of the autonomy and sovereignty of the member states; and facilitation of capital flight, making it difficult to combat money laundering by states. these are goals and consequences that deserve our utter repudiation and condemnation.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, after the neo-conservative wave of the 1980s and the neo-liberal fury that deregulated the financial sector, it was soon realised that private banking needed some rules or else the whole system would be called into question. the rules created from basel 1 to 3 aim to impose minimum levels of equity capital. however, the rules for their accounting have become increasingly complex and opaque as always suits the interest groups that profit from the lack of transparency. today, the citizen learns that the risk assessment models for assets are the responsibility of the so-called systemic banks, unlike the others which are subject to a standardised model, i.e. we have, as was shown by a standard & poor's study, assets with different weights from bank to bank, i.e. we have a system in which solvency ratios and stress tests are completely manipulated by the big banks, thus removing any credibility from the supervisory system. the solution is very simple for us. credit is too important to be left to the free initiative of the private sector. public control of banking and the financial system is now more than a matter of course, it is a necessity.
mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, the new rules for banking supervision under basle iii, in particular the methodology for assessing credit risk, raise two particularly important questions. the first is whether or not these new regulatory requirements risk further limiting the flow of credit available to households and businesses and what safeguards the commission will adopt to protect an economy that needs credit to grow. the second issue is proportionality, so how will these rules fit into the different size, risk level and business model of the various financial institutions? what assurances can the commission give us that what is the same will be treated as the same and what is different will be treated as proportionately different?
madam president, this report is nothing new, it merely confirms the militaristic and bellicose character of the european union. the justifications are the same as always: insecurity on european soil or the alleged fight against terrorism, without any reference to the absolute failure of integration policies or to what has been and is the responsibility of the european union in the aggressions against the countries of north africa and the middle east, as well as in the promotion, financing, training and arming of extremist groups. the so-called threats from the east are just as necessary to justify the encirclement of the russian federation. the subservience to nato and its objectives, such as increasing the military budgets of the member states to 2% of gdp and increasing funding for military research and for the military industry on european soil, does not hide the claims to have in the eu a large military bloc with its own operational capabilities, in particular through a european army. those who make war and feed their industry do not want or defend peace.
madam president, the development of transport by sea and inland waterways has potential economic and environmental benefits in terms of the mobility of passengers and goods. the development of this means of transport can be a factor in promoting territorial, social and economic cohesion and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in recent years, the divestment of equipment and infrastructure and the precariousness of work in this sector have put many services at risk. the operational viability of this mode of transport requires the adequacy of the natural conditions and infrastructure, which requires investment. of course, public investment, to stimulate, guide and frame private investment. in our view, the solution is not privatisation, deregulation or more public-private partnerships, but strong public intervention and leadership as a prerequisite for realising the potential benefits of this means of transport and for solving the existing problems and difficulties.
madam president, the debate on the effectiveness of development aid is a recurring one in this parliament, a debate not without some hypocrisy. the fact is that, while some here are raising a series of widespread concerns, they are forgetting that it is the policies decided here that have largely impeded the development possibilities of the least developed countries, from the deregulation and liberalization of international trade to the free movement of capital, that tax havens are a privileged instrument, passing through agricultural and fisheries policies, among other examples. the cover of these concerns, what some want is, in fact, to impose on the developing countries models of political, economic and social organization, the sacrosanct market economy, erected as a panacea for all the ills of humanity, the role of the private sector, the opening of markets to world competition, forgetting that, as lacordaire reminded us, between the weak and the strong, between the rich and the poor, it is freedom that oppresses and it is the law that liberates. the solution is to change policies, not to insist on the same paths that brought us here.
madam president, we are witnessing today another dark chapter in the history of this parliament. in the face of the chorus of protests against ceta, the reservations raised by parties and associations of all kinds, this parliament has made it impossible to hold a debate which would have had the merit of clarifying its real objectives and of confronting each member with a free and democratic debate. we shall therefore be voting on a draft resolution without the right to debate, which says a lot about the quality of democracy in this house. ceta was discussed in secret for seven years and presented as a 1600-page document with no possibility of amendment. ceta is an instrument designed to open up public markets to multinationals and to level all social and environmental standards. this is what parliament refuses to discuss. the european parliament has a duty to act.
mr president, we welcome the commission because we are starting now to adapt economic policy to the real needs, economic, social, political needs, of the european union and the euro area. we can also recognise that the european parliament proposals adopted in the last annual growth survey (ags) report were also taken into account. we are now starting to have an economic policy driven by the european strategy for growth and jobs, we are having a policy mix giving more attention to investment, we are paying attention to the role of demand and reducing social inequalities, and we are developing a euro area stance with more focus on supporting growth. these are positive elements. nevertheless, we are still falling short of a real virtuous circle in the euro area, because for this we need to have much higher investment to tackle social inequalities, thus increasing growth, and with higher growth it will be easier to reduce our public debt. of course fiscal discipline is important but this is not enough. we need to have this virtuous circle in the euro area. and for this we need to complete the economic and monetary union with a banking union and fiscal capacity. all members of the euro area need to have these conditions and we believe this is really a central task for the commission when the white paper is being prepared.
mr president, this report is the first step in another cycle of unacceptable economic blackmail against the national states and their budgetary policies. the content of the report is yet another homage to the neoliberal policies which have been the basis of the austerity imposed on workers and the poor, while the profits of big business are rising. in portugal, the october 2015 elections created conditions for a policy shift that reversed many measures imposed by the troika, easing austerity. despite all the pressures, the threats of fines, or the suspension of the structural funds, this small relief from austerity, with an increase in the minimum wage, pensions, a reduction in the tax burden on labour and, amazingly, the suspension of privatisations, the portuguese economy did not sink. economic growth is increasing and the public accounts deficit has improved. of course, this is of little concern to the european commission, since the economic governance that supports the euro and emu is above all an instrument designed to impose its neoliberal agenda on the workers and peoples.
mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, it is truly extraordinary that some voices on the right in this parliament are questioning the commission, even from a legal point of view, for committing this crime of proposing a moderately expansionary budgetary policy, as if the european union were bound to eternal austerity. they were the same ones who said that the expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank was in breach of the mandate, that the suspension of funds for portugal and spain was legally binding. we know none of this is true. the question we should be asking the commission is what it is going to do to ensure that this budgetary policy is not just words and that it corresponds to the reality of policies. the budgets which have just been made viable do not guarantee these objectives, the recommendations which the commission itself issued in july do not guarantee these objectives, so what can and will the commission do to make expansionary budgetary policy correspond to the reality of the policies of the member states?
mr president, commissioner, we must give the european semester credibility. this process must be taken seriously in its many dimensions and cannot be used exclusively for political debate but rather as a genuine system of coordination at the service of the people. we cannot continue to see contradictory messages that only alienate citizens from the european institutions. on monday you announce sanctions against member states for not complying with the deficit, but on tuesday you lift those sanctions by washing your hands of your responsibilities, on wednesday you praise economic performance, but on thursday you criticise sovereign debts, on friday and saturday we are all entangled in statistical projections and fortunately on sunday we rest. i am very concerned about this lack of planning, commissioner, because it is the unemployed, the most disadvantaged and especially the young who will pay and who will be called upon to pay for the absence of a global strategy which only presents us with sympathetic figures in the short term, calling into question the european social model. to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020, we must have a real coordination of economic and social indicators and invest in the productivity of our companies, not in the perspective of increasing working hours, but in building new and smart ways of working, empowering their human capital. commissioner, may we not lack ambition and courage to move in this direction.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, we naturally support all measures aimed at improving access to information and cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states. in this respect, the inclusion of the entire body of classified information in the framework of the fight against money laundering at the level of administrative cooperation represents a positive step. we stress, however, that it seems to us essential that this information be exchanged automatically if this change is to have any practical effect. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. we believe that it is not possible to combat this phenomenon by relying solely on the due diligence of private companies and the financial system. as has been criticised by many organisations, the results of the fight against money laundering have been residual over the last few decades. this is due to the conflicts of interest of the entities with the responsibility to report suspicious movements; this is because of money laundering and the legal instruments that have been built by the developed countries in the name of economic liberalisation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, money laundering, as well as tax fraud and evasion, is one of the visible faces of the liberal economy and the capitalist system. in this sense, the restoration of public control over banking and the financial system is also an indispensable condition for a more effective fight against these phenomena and for a better functioning of the economy.
finally, after the panama papers, bahamas leaks and other scandals, the council and the commission recognise that there is a link between the fight against tax fraud and evasion and the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. against the onshore and offshore secrecy of crime, transparency in the financial and business sectors, more synergies and more exchange of information between law enforcement agencies, including tax authorities, are needed, as this commission proposal sets out. unfortunately, the member states reached agreement in the council without consulting parliament, but they will have to face up to what we recommend in this report by emmanuel maurel. attention should be paid to its proposals to extend the scope of subjects and the amount of data on which there should be automatic and mandatory exchange of information, including on beneficial owners of companies and other legal entities to be recorded in a publicly accessible register. to this end, we are working on the revision of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. the information in question should also be made available to the commission, by virtue of its powers to apply the state aid rules. it is essential to break down the boundaries of financial crime investigation in the european union. tax and other authorities should cooperate in carrying out cross-border investigations.
‒ within the framework of its mandate, europol may conclude agreements with third countries and other organisations to establish cooperation channels, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. in this context, it is for parliament, having regard to the agreement reached, to consent to its signature by europol. this is a given, a proof that all legal requirements have been met and that all safeguards for european citizens have been guaranteed. this agreement with ukraine is of particular importance as it is consistent with and complementary to increased mobility of european and ukrainian citizens between the two territories.
‒ this report proposes the adoption of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine. the information exchanged may include specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. our position on the process of federalisation of justice and police investigations, the resulting confrontation with fundamental aspects of national sovereignty and the associated lack of democratic control is well known. we support cooperation between the internal and external security structures of the various countries. but we reject any federal impulse, such as the one this report clearly embodies. on the other hand, this proposal comes in the context of the growing confrontation with the russian federation, the intimidating advance of nato forces on its borders and the existence of an ultra-nationalist and fascist regime in ukraine promoted by the usa, the eu and nato. we voted against it.
‒ this document concerns the approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report proposes the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine. the information exchanged may include specific expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. europol is a structure that imposes the path of federalisation. since its creation, the eu has given it powers that undermine the sovereignty of states, by overriding national police forces and by operating outside the scope and democratic control of policies of cooperation between and between states, within the framework of its sovereignty and its own internal and external security structures. reasons which would justify a vote against. but to this is added the geopolitical context of ukraine, the privileged stage that has been used to justify the confrontation with and the encirclement of the russian federation, and the sponsorship by the eu and the us of an ultra-nationalist and fascist regime in ukraine.
‒ this report concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine. it provides for the exchange of information, including personal data, and also enables training and crime prevention activities. ukraine is now a key partner of the european union, and security and the fight against crime are of paramount importance in the context of this partnership. the exchange of information will enable the union, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat terrorism and other forms of international crime, including organised crime, more effectively. the signing of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement should encourage greater coordination between the action plans in the various areas of crime of the eu and its member states on the one hand and of ukraine on the other. because the conclusion of this cooperation agreement is a very concrete and important step in the development of the partnership between the union and ukraine, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mr president, this agreement with ukraine represents a further step in the fight against organised crime, more specifically in the area of economic and drug-related crime, human trafficking and smuggling. the exchange of information with europol will enable the european union, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ europol is a structure that imposes the path of federalisation. since its creation, the eu has given it powers that undermine the sovereignty of states, and has carried out its activities outside the scope and democratic control of the eu. we believe that europol should not override the national police and their activities. we therefore support cooperation between the internal and external security structures of the various countries. and because this proposal comes in the context of the european union's growing relations with russia, the intimidating advance of nato forces along its borders, and the existence of an ultra-nationalist and fascist regime in ukraine promoted by the us, the eu and nato, we vote against it.
in writing. the report deals with the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh, submitted in april 2016 by the french minister of justice and freedoms, in the context of the judicial inquiry against this member of parliament at the court of first instance of nanterre. the request relates to an alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion. the complaint concerns statements in a brochure entitled 'a small practical guide for councilors by the national front', published in september 2013 and posted online in november on the website of the national front federation, which encouraged the candidates of the national front elected to the position of councilors to recommend, from the first meeting of the new municipal bodies, that priority be given to french citizens in the allocation of social housing. jean-françois jalkh was the director of publications for the national front and had editorial control of all the federation's websites. the person concerned was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the alleged offence. the actions in question shall not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member in the performance of his duties. there is no reason to suspect that there has been an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the public prosecutor of the tribunal de relation de versailles requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, jean-françois jalkh, in connection with a legal action relating to an alleged offence. the charges clearly do not relate to jean-françois jalkh's position as a member of the european parliament and concern rather activities of a purely national or regional nature, as the statements were addressed to possible future councillors, with a view to the elections to be held on 23 and 30 march 2014, and related to his position as director of publications of the national front with editorial control over all websites of the federation. i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ the request for the waiver of jean-françois jalkh's immunity relates to an alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion, committed orally, in writing, by images or by communication to the public by electronic means, by an unknown person or persons, an offence punishable by french law. the complaint concerns a brochure entitled 'a small practical guide for councilors by the national front' which encouraged the candidates of the national front elected as councilors in the elections of 23 and 30 march 2014 to recommend in the new municipal bodies that priority be given to french citizens for the allocation of social housing. jean-françois jalkh was the director of publications for the national front and had editorial control of all the federation's websites. he was not a member of the european parliament at the time. the charges relate to activities of a purely national or regional nature prior to that condition. there is no reason to suspect that there has been an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh by means of the judicial inquiry. we voted yes.
‒ the actions alleged do not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. parliament decided to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. the charges clearly do not relate to jean-françois jalkh's office as a member of the european parliament and concern activities of a purely national or regional nature. the actions alleged do not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. there is no reason to suspect that there was an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh behind the judicial inquiry opened following a complaint by the association 'maison des potes' 'maison de l'égalité' lodged before jean-françois jalkh took up his duties in the european parliament. we therefore approve the withdrawal.
‒ the report concerns the request for the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, by the public prosecutor at the paris court of appeal, in connection with a legal action concerning an alleged offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a specific ethnic, national, racial or religious group, punishable under french law, an accusation brought by the national anti-semitism surveillance authority (bnvca), in a complaint lodged following statements by jean-marie le pen in an interview published on the website frontnational.com and subsequently on the blog mariepenjean.com, following the reference by a member of the public to the name of the singer patrick bruel. the charges clearly do not relate to jean-françois jalkh's position as a member of the european parliament and concern rather activities of a purely national or regional nature, as the allegations relate to the local elections held in march 2014 and his position as director of publications of the national front with editorial control over all websites of the federation. we voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
‒ the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and that independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the request for the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh was submitted on 14 april 2016 by the french minister of justice and freedoms, in the context of a judicial inquiry (case no 1422400530) against jean-françois jalkh, at the paris regional court, following a complaint by the association national body of vigilance against antisemitism (bnvca) as a civil party, for incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence, which was communicated in plenary on 8 june 2016. the actions relied on do not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, member of the european parliament, following a legal action concerning an alleged offence of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons on grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a specific ethnic, national, racial or religious group, punishable under french law. the complaint concerns jean-marie le pen's statements about the singer patrick bruel, who had said he would not perform in cities that elected a mayor of the national front, where he stated: that doesn't surprise me. listen, you'll have a big one next time. jean-françois jalkh was the director of publications for the official website of the national front which published these statements. he was not a member of the european parliament at the time. the charges are not related to the performance of those duties. they concern activities of a purely national or regional nature, in particular local elections and his position as director of publications of the national front. there is no reason to suspect that there was an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh behind the judicial inquiry launched following the complaint. we voted yes.
‒ the actions alleged do not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. parliament decided to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
‒ the accusations clearly do not relate to jean-françois jalkh's position as a member of the european parliament and concern rather activities of a purely national or regional nature, as the allegations relate to the local elections held on 23 and 30 march 2014 and his position as director of publications of the national front with editorial control over all websites of the federation. the actions alleged do not relate to opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties. there is no reason to suspect that there was an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of jean-françois jalkh behind the judicial inquiry launched following the complaint. we therefore approve the withdrawal.
‒ this proposal for a regulation has been pending since the previous legislature, following its referral to the court of justice of the eu, following a disagreement between the european parliament and the council on the competence of the multiannual plans. the original proposal of the european commission provided for the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: adaptation of fishing mortality rates and associated levels of biomass of the stock to scientific findings; adjustment of fishing effort in case of exclusion or re-inclusion of a group of vessels in the effort regime; specification of the rules on the method of calculating fishing capacity and adjustment of maximum capacity levels; and establishment of the rules on the method of calculation allowing member states to adapt the maximum allowable fishing effort in relation to quota management and following transfers of effort between effort groups. the report, broadly in line with the commission proposal, does however propose a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts, which is considered positive. however, it is noted that this document will be replaced by a multi-species plan for the region where it is applied, which will require further and more in-depth consideration.
‒ this report aims to regulate a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, which supports, in general, the application of the principles of the new common fisheries policy and its implementation, providing eu countries with greater control at national and regional level. this policy aims to ensure that fisheries are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable and that they provide a source of healthy food for european citizens. its aim is to promote a dynamic fisheries sector and to ensure a fair standard of living for fishing communities. i voted yes.
‒ it is very important to establish a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. only then can we have effective management of marine resources. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this proposal for a regulation has been pending since the previous legislature, following its referral to the court of justice of the eu, following a disagreement between the european parliament and the council on the competence of the multiannual plans. the original proposal of the european commission provided for the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: adaptation of fishing mortality rates and associated levels of biomass of the stock to scientific findings; adjustment of fishing effort in case of exclusion or re-inclusion of a group of vessels in the effort regime; specification of the rules on the method of calculating fishing capacity and adjustment of maximum capacity levels; and establishment of the rules on the method of calculation allowing member states to adapt the maximum allowable fishing effort in relation to quota management and following transfers of effort between effort groups. the report, broadly in line with the commission proposal, does however propose a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts, which is considered positive. however, it is noted that this document will be replaced by a multi-species plan for the region where it is applied, which will require further and more in-depth consideration.
in writing. ‒ on 12 september 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 1342/2008 (com ((2012) 0498)) with a view to improving and clarifying the provisions of that regulation. regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 aims to establish a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. on 19 april 2016, the pech commission adopted a mandate for negotiations with the council and the process was concluded in a single trilogue on 29 june 2016. the agreement, which implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation, was accepted by the pech commission on 11 july 2016. in fact, one of the benefits of the agreement is the simplification of the laws on total allowable catches. i voted in favour because i believe that clear and explicit regulations are important and that respect for environmental sustainability is of the utmost importance.
‒ the commission's original proposal provided for the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: adaptation of fishing mortality rates and associated stock biomass levels to scientific findings; adjustment of fishing effort in the event of the exclusion or re-inclusion of a group of vessels in the effort regime; specification of the rules on the method for calculating fishing capacity and adjustment of maximum capacity levels; and establishment of the rules on the method for calculating the maximum allowable fishing effort adjustment by member states in relation to quota management and following transfers of effort between effort groups. despite the general agreement to the commission proposal, there should be a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation on the management of cod stocks should be amended to include the following elements: on the basis of this case law, it is now possible to revise a long-term plan for these stocks and the fisheries exploiting them, ensuring legal certainty for operators in the sector.
‒ we support all measures to improve access to information and cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states. in this respect, the inclusion of the entire body of information required in the framework of the fight against money laundering at the level of administrative cooperation is a positive step. we stress, however, that only if this information is exchanged automatically can practical results be achieved. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. it will not be possible to combat this phenomenon by relying solely on the due diligence of private companies and the financial system. as has been criticised by many organisations, the results of the fight against money laundering have been residual over the last few decades. in other words, money laundering, as well as tax fraud and evasion, is one of the faces of the liberal economy and the capitalist system. in this sense, the restoration of public control over banking and the financial system is a necessary condition for a more effective fight against these phenomena and for a better functioning of the economy.
‒ this report is about the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu, reinforcing the idea that tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance is (or should be) an eu priority. the luxleaks, panama papers and other scandals confirm the need for greater tax transparency and cooperation between jurisdictions. it is thus established that the tax authorities of the member states will automatically exchange, within three months of receipt, the documents and information communicated with any other member state if the beneficial owner of an undertaking or any other account holder is a taxpayer in that member state. furthermore, it was also decided that access should be granted to the commission for the performance of its tasks on a confidential basis. i voted yes.
‒ the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including in connection with money laundering, is an absolute priority for the european union. the mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters is recognised internationally, within the g20, the oecd and the european union, as the most effective instrument for achieving international tax transparency. in order to achieve the objectives of this directive, it is necessary for the commission to examine the possible role of the banking system and financial operators in facilitating money laundering. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ we naturally support all measures aimed at improving access to information and cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states. in this respect, the inclusion of the entire body of information required in the framework of the fight against money laundering at the level of administrative cooperation is a positive step. we stress, however, that it seems to us essential that this information be exchanged automatically if this change is to have any practical effect. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. we believe that it is not possible to combat this phenomenon by relying solely on the due diligence of private companies and the financial system. as has been criticised by many organisations, the results of the fight against money laundering have been residual over the last few decades. in other words, money laundering, along with tax fraud and evasion, is one of the visible faces of the liberal economy and the capitalist system. in this sense, the restoration of public control over banking and the financial system is also a prerequisite for a more effective fight against these phenomena and for a better functioning of the economy.
‒ the latest cases concerning the processing of information in the union justify the adoption of measures that strengthen the transparency framework, as the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including in connection with money laundering, is an absolute priority for the european union. in order to combat tax evasion, it is necessary to provide the tax authorities with more and better information, in particular on the beneficial owners of intermediary entities. in order to achieve the objectives of this directive, it is also necessary for the commission to examine the possible role of the banking system and financial operators in facilitating money laundering. this report aims to provide tax authorities with more and better information with the clear objective of combating tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report goes against everything we have been advocating in the european parliament, allowing tax authorities to have consistent access to anti-money laundering information in order to improve their performance in monitoring the implementation of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions. as we know, the access of tax authorities to this information differs considerably within the eu. even where such access is guaranteed, authorities often encounter significant barriers that hamper the effectiveness of their work against tax fraud and evasion. the commission's proposed amendments to the directive are important to improve the identification of money laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. so is the obligation to exchange information automatically.
‒ this report concerns an amendment to directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to anti-money laundering information by tax authorities. the amendments adopted by parliament will enable the tax authorities to combat tax evasion and fraud more effectively and will also make the tax authorities' control obligations more effective. the new rules adopted will enter into force at the beginning of 2018 and lay down, inter alia, measures allowing access to data on the beneficial owners of certain entities and on the due diligence of their clients. i also agree with the view that access to data should result from the mandatory automatic exchange of information and the relevance of member states including such data in a public centralised register of companies, trusts and other similar structures. in view of the above, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ we naturally support all measures aimed at improving access to information and cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states. in this respect, the inclusion of the entire body of information required in the framework of the fight against money laundering at the level of administrative cooperation is a positive step. we stress, however, that it seems to us essential that this information be exchanged automatically if this change is to have any practical effect. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. we believe that it is not possible to combat this phenomenon by relying solely on the due diligence of private companies and the financial system. as has been criticised by many organisations, the results of the fight against money laundering have been residual over the last few decades. in other words, money laundering, along with tax fraud and evasion, is one of the visible faces of the liberal economy and the capitalist system. in this sense, the restoration of public control over banking and the financial system is also a prerequisite for a more effective fight against these phenomena and for a better functioning of the economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the maurel report because i agree with the need to combat tax evasion in the european union effectively. the report therefore states the need to ensure that tax authorities have quick and complete access to anti-money laundering information and the need to have sufficient qualified staff to carry out this task in order to have the capacity to exchange this information. the rapporteur himself, on behalf of the european socialist group, has proposed that this exchange of information be automatic and compulsory between member states, which should include this data in a 'public centralised register' of companies, trust funds and other structures, which would be a new, more proactive approach to combating tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the real objectives of the banking union are now clearer to more people. created under the false pretext of giving the financial system stability and taking care of the systemic banks, considered 'too big to fail', it was nothing more than a manoeuvre designed to remove from the public sphere, from the national states and their governments, under public, democratic control and scrutiny, any possibility of intervening in the system. its real objectives are to impose banking concentration on a european scale, thus aggravating the problem it is supposed to solve. in the portuguese case, the situation is glaring. with the centralisation of all supervisory and resolution functions in the ecb, the largest banks were eventually sold to foreign groups at the balance price, with the loss being borne by the taxpayers, since the resolution fund has only been financed by the portuguese state. the banking union will obviously not solve any of the problems of the economies, with or without the deposit guarantee system. because this banking union is an expression of the dominance of the financial system over the political power of the eu.
‒ this annual report on the ecb's activities for 2015 once again supports the idea that monetary policy can only achieve its full potential if it is complemented by sound fiscal policies and ambitious structural reform programmes. moreover, the loan programme at almost negative interest rates, without any conditionality, served mostly to consolidate the balance sheets of the banks, with little or no effect on the real economy. now this view is once again wrong. until we adopt a truly expansionary and distributive monetary policy, which supports sme investment and job creation by providing low-interest bank loans to peripheral member states that face the greatest difficulties in accessing credit, the objectives of sustainable economic recovery will not be achieved. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the euro area continues to experience high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, including in the current account, and that the euro area is also faced with a very low level of productivity growth, which results from a lack of investment 10 percentage points below the pre-crisis level and from the absence of structural reforms as well as from a shortage of domestic demand. the high level of government debt, in particular the high volume of non-performing loans and the persistence of an undercapitalised banking sector in some member states, continue to cause fragmentation of the euro area financial market, thus reducing the room for manoeuvre that would support the weakest economies. sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reforms geared to increasing productivity are the only way to bring about sustainable economic improvements in these member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is now clear that banking union, created to give the financial system stability and deal with systemic banks, dubbed too big to fail, is nothing more than a manoeuvre designed to remove from the sphere of sovereignty of states and national governments the ability to intervene and impose a set of merger operations between financial institutions, thus aggravating the problem it was supposed to solve. in the case of portugal, the situation is glaring. with the centralisation of all supervisory and resolution functions in the ecb, the largest banks were eventually sold to foreign groups at the balance price, with the loss being borne by the taxpayers, since the resolution fund has only been financed by the portuguese state. the banking union will obviously not solve any of the problems of the economies, with or without the deposit guarantee system. because the banking union is an expression of the domination of the financial system over the political power of the eu, which has long since given up defending the interests of the citizen to devote itself to serving the interests of those who control political power in europe.
‒ despite its undoubted benefits, the euro area continues to experience high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, including those in the current account. moreover, the area is facing a very low level of growth, resulting from a worrying lack of investment - 10 percentage points below the pre-crisis level - and the absence of structural reforms, as well as from a lack of domestic demand. the high level of government debt, in particular the high volume of non-performing loans and the persistence of an undercapitalised banking sector in some member states, continue to cause fragmentation of the euro area financial market, thus reducing the room for manoeuvre that would support the weakest economies. i believe that only by implementing sound budgetary policies and balanced structural reforms aimed at increasing productivity will it be possible to bring about sustainable economic improvements in the member states in a more fragile situation, as is the case in portugal. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ mr president, this annual report gives a positive assessment of the ecb's monetary policies in general. it stresses, however, that the euro area continues to experience high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, including in the current account, and that, in addition, the euro area is faced with a very low level of productivity growth, which results from a lack of investment 10 percentage points below the pre-crisis level and the absence of structural reforms, as well as from a lack of domestic demand. it also notes that the high level of government debt, in particular the high volume of non-performing loans and the persistence of an undercapitalised banking sector in some member states, continue to cause fragmentation of the euro area financial market, reducing the room for manoeuvre that would support the weakest economies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ today, it is clear that banking union, created to give the financial system stability and deal with systemic banks, dubbed too big to fail, is nothing more than a manoeuvre designed to remove from the sphere of national governments any possibility of intervening and to impose a set of merger operations between financial institutions, thus aggravating the problem it was supposed to solve. in the case of portugal, the situation is glaring. with the centralisation of all supervisory and resolution functions in the ecb, the largest banks were eventually sold to foreign groups at the balance price, with the loss being borne by the taxpayers, since the resolution fund has only been financed by the portuguese state. the banking union will obviously not solve any of the problems of the economies, with or without the deposit guarantee system. because this banking union is an expression of the domination of the financial system over the political power of the eu, which has long since given up defending the interests of the citizen to devote itself to serving the interests of those who actually rule in europe.
mr president, the financial crisis has shown two things: firstly, that financial concentration is a very dangerous thing, and secondly, that only strong regulation can protect the interests of consumers. this report seems to have forgotten both lessons. i am a strong supporter of product standardisation, but the report is very vague on this. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's important, but it's naive, that we think we can eliminate risk while banks sell products that consumers can't decipher. let us be honest, this report does not prevent further bank losses and so many people in europe have already lost their life savings. on the contrary, this report, for example, by eliminating restrictions on competition in retail services, will result in the formation of huge financial conglomerates and the creation of more institutions that are too big to fail. i voted against all of that. we should have learned and we didn't.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire. this initiative will lead to the liquidation of smaller companies and the promotion of pan-european banking oligopolies, with increased profits for large eu banks, notably through reduction in operational costs, including staff redundancies, digitally facilitated processes and reduction in the physical presence of companies. we will have less transparency, more fraud and tax evasion and a sharpening of the problem of 'too big to fail' companies. we cannot but reject this course.
‒ the dynamics of retail financial services, characterised by a combination of relatively high concentration and insufficient competition, can result in limited choice and low cost-effectiveness, as well as significant disparities between member states. a european market for retail financial services is only viable if it represents real added value for the consumer, ensuring effective competition, accessibility and consumer protection, in particular for products that are actually necessary for participation in economic life. the green paper initiative is timely, taking into account the need to work proactively at all stages of the decision-making process in order to respond effectively and appropriately to developments in such an innovative and rapidly changing market. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not harmed by the introduction of the euro. an initiative that will lead to the liquidation of smaller companies and the promotion of pan-european banking oligopolies, with increased profits for large eu banks, in particular through reduction in operational costs, including the layoff of workers, processes facilitated by the digital side and reduction of the physical location of companies. we will have less transparency, more fraud and tax evasion and a sharpening of the problem of 'too big to fail' companies. we cannot but reject this path.
‒ the union retail financial services market is still lacking in strong development, particularly in the face of the low number of cross-border transactions, and measures are therefore needed to fully exploit the potential of the single market and to facilitate innovation for the benefit of end-users. a european market for retail financial services must represent a real added value for the consumer in terms of accessibility and protection of the legal sphere of retail financial services, while ensuring effective competition between the various players. in this regard, it is important to foster a competitive environment and to maintain a level playing field for all actors, in particular established and new operators. to that end, the applicable rules should be based on a model that is as neutral as possible both at technological and business level. in short, the approach set out in the green paper is important for encouraging the development of start-ups and new and innovative smes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ this green paper provides an opportunity to reflect on the possibility of further opening up the european market for retail financial services including insurance, loans, payment accounts, current and savings accounts and other retail investments producing better outcomes for consumers and businesses, while maintaining an adequate level of protection for both the consumer and the investor. it seeks to identify the specific obstacles faced by consumers and businesses in making full use of the single market and possible ways of overcoming these obstacles, including by taking better advantage of new technologies, provided that appropriate safeguards are in place. it makes perfect sense, in a cohesive union, to allow: firms based in one eu member state (em) to have greater ease in offering retail financial services in other ems; consumers to be able to buy retail financial services offered in other ems; citizens to be able to continue to enjoy their financial services products if they move from one em to another, whether for the purpose of study, work or retirement (called 'portability').
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not harmed by the introduction of the euro. this initiative will lead to the liquidation of smaller companies and the promotion of pan-european banking oligopolies, with the increase of profits of large eu banks, in particular through the reduction of operating costs, including the layoffs of workers, processes facilitated by the digital side and the reduction of the physical location of companies. we will have less transparency, more fraud and tax evasion and a sharpening of the problem of 'too big to fail' companies. we cannot but reject this course.
‒ the establishment of a european defence union as a means of further integration is important and timely. the international challenges facing the union require a fully realised and operational common security and defence policy (csdp). i believe that the eu should exploit all the potential of the lisbon treaty, such as permanent structured cooperation or the petersberg missions, this requires financial commitment in the mff and in the annual budgets to eliminate the cost of non-europe in this area (eur 26.4 billion/year). i welcome the initiative to draw up a white paper on defence and the current consensus on further integration. i hope that this diligence and political will will be translated into concrete instruments. to this end, i believe it is urgent to implement the action plan of the eu global strategy in this area. i highlight priorities such as cybersecurity, maritime security or hybrid warfare as current challenges for european defence. in this context, i would stress the importance of scientific research for an effective approach. i believe that an edu should be an opportunity for young entrepreneurs, for european smes and for european public procurement in this area. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report reflects the ongoing process in the eu of strengthening the security perspective internally and a militarist perspective externally. the report argues that the eu must develop its military capabilities so that it can be prepared to intervene in any situation inside or outside its borders. the report considers that the european defence union will contribute to the strengthening of nato itself and to further cooperation with this organization. the report proposes cooperation and development in the industrial and military research sectors. the aim is to increase funding and support for this sector. it promotes the definition of a common arms policy. it proposes the drawing up of a white paper on defence matters. he's advocating increased spending on defense budgets. it advocates the establishment of a european armed forces. it calls for the common security and defence policy to be deepened. it advocates autonomous eu action and the development of eu military capabilities to act where nato cannot. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. finally, the report challenges a whole dark military menu which we must vote against.
‒ this report promotes the strengthening of a security perspective at the internal level and a militarist perspective at the external level of the eu, i.e. a common arms policy. it proposes, in particular, to increase military spending by using 2% of gdp for this purpose and 20% of its defence budgets identified as necessary, in breach of article 41 (2) teu. what this report advocates is the (re) militarization of europe, based on a vision of security and a fortress europe. i voted against it.
‒ to ensure its long-term security, europe needs political will and determination backed by a broad set of relevant policy instruments, including strong and modern military capabilities. the establishment of the union's common defence policy is a step forward in the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the lisbon treaty, which is subject to international law and is effectively indispensable to enable the eu to promote the rule of law, peace and security worldwide. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the report, the commission proposes to develop the eu's military capabilities to intervene in any situation inside or outside its borders, on the pretext of the deterioration of security in europe, the fight against terrorism and the 'threats' from the south (radical islamic groups) and the east (russia). the report also consolidates the eu as the european military pillar of nato, contributing to its strengthening and cooperation. but it is clear that it intends to assert itself as a military bloc with aspirations to replace nato in certain circumstances. it advocates increasing defence spending by devoting 2% of gdp to this end. it is proposed to increase cooperation and finance for the development of the industrial sector and military research, and to promote a common arms policy. it calls for the creation of a european army, the deepening of the common security and defence policy and the establishment of a european defence agency. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. policies that impose fear, war and destruction, contrary to policies of peace and cooperation between sovereign states. we voted against it.
‒ the security situation in the union and in neighbouring states has deteriorated significantly and has created difficult challenges that cannot be addressed in isolation. the principle of solidarity thus obliges the eu to act in concert with our allies and partners and with third countries. i would remind you that cybersecurity is also an area of action in which cooperation and integration are crucial, not only between member states but also within nato and between the various actors in society, since it is not a purely military responsibility. according to the eurobarometer 85.1 of june 2016, around two thirds of citizens would like to see the eu more involved in security and defence policy issues, with internal and external security increasingly indistinguishable. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report focuses on the need to strengthen european defence cooperation, a long-standing dream of the european union (eu) since the pleven plan. in recent years, insecurity in europe and its neighbours has worsened exponentially, creating a host of new challenges that need to be tackled collectively. i therefore support the need to strengthen collaboration and cooperation between the european armed forces, in particular through some of the recommendations presented with a view to combating terrorism and the various daily threats to the security of citizens more effectively. the proposals for the creation of a european headquarters, a european defence semester, a minimum investment of 2% of gdp by the member states for defence are somewhat controversial and do not generate unanimous opinion within the european parliament. however, they are all ambitious proposals which deserve reflection and are subject to negotiation until we reach a more consensual outcome which gives priority to collective security in europe. i also support the idea of a thorough review of the common security and defence policy, which would enable the eu and the member states to contribute more to the security of the union as a whole by asserting their strategic autonomy in this area.
‒ this report confirms the militaristic and warlike character of the eu. the usual excuses. insecurity on european soil or the so-called fight against terrorism, without any reference to the utter failure of integration policies, or to what has been and is the responsibility of the eu in the aggression against countries in north africa and the middle east, as well as in the promotion, financing, training and arming of extremist groups. the so-called threats from the east are just as close to justifying the siege of the russian federation. subservience to nato and its objectives, such as increasing the military budgets of the member states to 2% of gdp and increasing funding for military research and for the military industry on european soil, does not hide the aspirations to have a large military bloc in the eu with its own operational capabilities, in particular through a european army. those who make war and feed their industry do not want to and cannot defend peace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the paet report because i agree with the proposals made in the area of the common security and defence policy. i stress my support for the development of an autonomous defence capability by the eu, with the aim of protecting its citizens and promoting their interests in full compliance with the treaties, international law and human rights.
‒ inland waterway passenger transport plays a key role in building a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. the eu's maritime transport objective is to become a world leader in maritime research and innovation and shipbuilding, with a view to improving the efficiency and energy intelligence of ships, reducing environmental impact, minimising the risk of accidents and improving the quality of life at sea. it is necessary to eliminate bottlenecks in the links between the extended inland waterway system of western europe and the current system of eastern europe, whose degradation is marked and in some places total. the commission should develop a harmonised system for the collection of statistical data on accidents and incidents for inland waterway vessels, including cross-border traffic. member states should promote and support local initiatives to activate inland waterway transport and as a means of meeting the needs of urban agglomerations. i therefore support this report.
‒ the development of waterway transport sea and river is a very important issue for the mobility of passengers and goods, with enormous environmental and economic benefits. the operation of this transport system requires the adequacy of natural conditions and infrastructure. in recent years, the divestment of equipment and infrastructure, as well as the precariousness of work in this system, have put many services at risk. this report is based on a good principle, namely the development of inland waterway transport as a factor of territorial, social and economic cohesion; as a factor in meeting the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the environmental sustainability of transport; as a safer and more controllable means of transport. however, the way of achieving the development objectives of the sector is the same as that which has led to privatisation, deregulation, loss of quality of service and, in some cases, abandonment of the provisions of the white paper on transport, the connecting europe facility, the trans-european transport network and, as a major source of funding, the esi funds. in recognition of the importance of the sector, we cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ passenger transport by inland waterways, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. better use of available capacity for passenger transport by inland waterway could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the development of waterway transport sea and river is a very important issue for the mobility of passengers and goods, with enormous environmental and economic benefits. the operation of this transport system requires the adequacy of natural conditions and infrastructure. in recent years, the divestment of equipment and infrastructure, as well as the precariousness of work in this system, have put many services at risk. this report is based on a good principle, namely the development of inland waterway transport as a factor of territorial, social and economic cohesion; as a factor in meeting the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the environmental sustainability of transport; as a safer and more controllable means of transport. however, the way of achieving the development objectives of the sector is the same as that which has led to privatisation, deregulation, loss of quality of service and, in some cases, abandonment of the provisions of the white paper on transport, the connecting europe facility, the trans-european transport network and, as a major source of funding, the esi funds. in recognition of the importance of the sector, we cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ passenger ships, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, play an important role in the mobility of union citizens. more than 400 million people transit through eu ports every year and 120 million passengers are transported between ports in the same member state. inland waterway passenger transport plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector and should be supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. eu legislation on the safety of passenger ships has been adopted over a period of 15 years. this legislation has improved the safety of life on passenger ships operating in eu waters and has facilitated search and rescue operations. in order to increase the potential of this type of transport, it is important to strengthen the application of existing standards and to simplify the existing regulatory framework in order to eliminate outdated or overlapping requirements. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ passenger transport by inland waterways, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
‒ the development of inland waterway, sea and river transport has potential economic and environmental benefits in terms of passenger and goods mobility. it is relatively safe and controllable, can be a factor in promoting territorial, social and economic cohesion and can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is therefore not understandable that in recent years the disinvestment in equipment and infrastructure and the precariousness of work in this sector have put so many services in question. of course, this involved public investment to stimulate, guide and frame private investment. the options were very diverse: to privatise and sterilise public investment with austerity, condemning the sector to a vegetative state, to the disgrace of the populations and workers and the pride of big capital.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the taylor report for agreeing with the proposals put forward to exploit the potential of passenger transport by inland waterway. this transport mode has the potential to contribute to the decarbonisation of the sector, to serve as a reliable alternative for the consumer and to promote the decongestion of land roads in coastal areas. i would stress that more than 400 million people transit through eu ports every year and some 120 million passengers are transported between ports in the same member state, which is why i support proposals to focus on less polluting and more energy-efficient technologies. in this context, i would point out that i, as rapporteur for the european lng strategy, submitted to the committee on the environment a proposal for the use of liquefied natural gas to decarbonise the maritime sector and heavy transport. i would also stress the need for funds to be made available to stimulate projects in this direction.
‒ strengthening aid and development effectiveness has been one of the eu's main concerns over the years. with the second high level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation approaching, it is necessary to take stock of the implementation of the global commitments on aid effectiveness and development. i believe that the eu should continue to play an important leadership role in these issues and be a strong contributor to the thinking and implementation of development standards. we must not forget the key role of official development assistance, recalling that most providers have not fulfilled their commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income; we must strive for greater coordination and transparency, demand improved public financial management and absorption capacity in the beneficiary countries and greater cooperation with the national parliaments of third countries. i would point out that only by ensuring peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law, as well as independent judicial systems and the protection of minorities, can we achieve these development goals and the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
‒ the debate in the european parliament on the effectiveness of development aid is a recurring one. the reports which deal with this issue rarely go into the depths of the matter, but rather use it to try, often in a cynical and hypocritical manner, to condition the developing countries by imposing on them models of political organization of the state, particularly as regards the ways of economic and social organization. that is what is happening once again with this report. the saving power of the market economy, the private sector, the opening up of the economies of these countries to world competition are defended. finally, the typical neoliberal recipe which has caused the economic and social disasters that are in sight (in particular as a result of the interventions of the imf and the world bank). while we agree with a number of fair observations in the report, notably the need to increase official development assistance, criticism of the failure to meet the targets set, among other aspects, what prevails is a certain neo-colonial vision evident in the references to corruption, circumscribed to references to the countries receiving aid and discrediting the eu and its policies. not a word about the harmful effects of deregulation and trade liberalization, for example.
‒ this report proposes measures to enhance the effectiveness of development cooperation in all countries, building on the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc). among the various measures proposed, the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards is highlighted, with the aim of the european commission ensuring that companies operating from tax havens do not participate in projects financed by official development assistance. i voted yes.
‒ the eu has a longstanding commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. the eu, which has played an important role in both the creation of the current standards for aid and development effectiveness and the adoption of the 2030 agenda, should continue to take the lead on these issues and contribute to the reflection on the articulation and synergies between the two now that we have entered the implementation phase. as the world's largest donor of development aid, the eu has a special responsibility to improve the effectiveness and ensure greater accountability of eu assistance worldwide. in addition, the eu must lead global efforts to advance the development effectiveness agenda and ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law in the developing world remain a key concern. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the debate in the european parliament on the effectiveness of development aid is a recurring one. rarely do the reports that deal with it go to the bottom of the matter. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. that is what is happening once again with this report. the saving power of the market economy, the private sector, the opening up of the economies of these countries to world competition are defended. finally, the typical neoliberal recipe which has caused the economic and social disasters that are in sight (in particular as a result of the interventions of the imf and the world bank). while we agree with a number of fair observations in the report, notably the need to increase official development assistance and criticism of the failure to meet the targets set, among other aspects, what prevails is a certain neo-colonial vision evident in the references to corruption, circumscribed to references to the countries receiving aid and discrediting the eu and its policies. not a word about the harmful effects of deregulation and trade liberalization, for example.
‒ the european union has long been committed to increasing a model of development cooperation. the union, which plays an important role both in creating the current standards for aid and development effectiveness and in adopting the 2030 agenda, should continue to take the lead on these issues and contribute to reflection on the articulation and synergies between them. remarkable progress has been made in this respect. the launch of the union's performance-based framework in march 2015 was a step forward in enhancing the accountability, transparency and visibility of eu aid. i agree with my colleague cristian dan preda when he says that legitimate and inclusive governance, based on the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries, is an indispensable element for development assistance to play its proper role in reducing poverty and improving the prospects of citizens. i voted in favour.
‒ the european union, as the world's largest donor of development aid, has a responsibility to improve the effectiveness and accountability of its assistance programmes. this is why all mechanisms that can contribute to advancing the development effectiveness agenda, such as triangular cooperation projects, involvement of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector, are useful. the european union must ensure more effective development cooperation if it is to have a real impact on poverty reduction in a context of growing humanitarian and development crises and resource scarcity.
in writing. - this discussion is not without some hypocrisy. while some here are raising a host of petty concerns, they are forgetting that it is the policies decided here that are to a large extent hampering the development possibilities of the least developed countries. deregulation and liberalization of international trade and tax havens are privileged instruments designed to encourage the drainage of resources from poor countries to rich countries, and not the other way around. under the cover of these concerns, what some want is to impose on developing countries the sacrosanct market economy erected as a panacea for all the ills of mankind, the role of the private sector and the opening of markets to global competition. the solution is to change policies and not to insist on the same paths that brought us here.
‒ i voted in favour of the preda report, as i agree with the need to make the best use of public and private resources for cooperation and development in order to achieve the ambitious goals and objectives set out in the 2030 agenda. i emphasise the key role of official development assistance in delivering the agenda for effective development, eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities, providing essential public services and supporting good governance. this requires the european union and its member states to honour the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to development cooperation and to adopt an effective roadmap to achieve the agreed target in a transparent, predictable and accountable manner. i also stress the importance of placing a strong emphasis on poor, vulnerable and marginalised groups, with due regard to gender equality and situations of fragility and conflict, in the context of the development effectiveness agenda.
madam president, madam mogherini, with all frankness and respect, i honestly do not know whether we are talking about the same planet or whether the european union and the european commission are in a state of total denial. i didn't want to believe it when i heard that we were starting to move into this new language of the post-conflict situation. the conflict is far from over. it will not end tomorrow, or perhaps in the next few years, and it will not end tomorrow or in the next few years, because we are partly responsible for this situation. as long as the european union continues to have this manichean view of the conflict, as long as it continues to ignore that people are still dying every day, that there is a territorial dispute that goes beyond all of this and that has to do with resources and geostrategic positioning, as long as it ignores that there is an arms trade that is behind all of this, as long as it ignores the role of turkey and the gulf countries, saudi arabia, as long as it ignores all of this and tries to tell a black and white story, as long as it continues to be part of the problem and not the solution, there may not even be a solution. but to talk about conflict resolution, mrs mogherini, is really a state of denial, it is strictly not learning anything from the past.
shame is what i feel as a european for returning to the debate on syria, with nothing having changed. aleppo, hell on earth, is confronted by men, women and children who have been cruelly bombed, schools, hospitals, aid workers and refugee camps deliberately attacked. the un high commissioner for human rights has called for restrictions on the p5 veto over war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide, to overcome the security council's paralysis and bring those responsible for the carnage in syria to the international criminal court. why do we not hear the european union support this appeal, mrs mogherini? the european union and its member states have been unable to act strategically, with sanctions, humanitarian corridors, no fly zones, or anything else that makes any difference to peace in syria. we have thus allowed putin to fill the vacuum in support of the murderous assad regime and terrorist groups like daesh to continue to massacre the syrian people with direct consequences also for european security. when are we going to realize that if we don't stop the war in syria, we're not only manufacturing more refugees, but also delivering lost generations to terrorist recruitment?
madam president, meps are being barred from visiting fellow turkish parliamentarians in prison, 10 from the hdp plus the seven mayors of kurdish cities are jailed besides thousands of journalists, judges, teachers, officers, alleged to have links with the july coup. the eu should be alarmed and warn against a mass murder likely in preparation of prisoners whom erdoğan considers linked to the gulen movement. already 20 appeared to have been suicides, certainly to hide traces of torture. already pro-government media report on mass escape plans by jailed prisoners, a convenient excuse to execute them. the eu must ditch any pretence that the accession negotiations are still possible with the repressive regime of erdoğan in his latest crazy power grab. let’s instead, ms mogherini, engage and support all those brave men and women in turkey who fight for democracy and human rights, and resist. we cannot be friends with a regime that brutally attacks the kurds and oppresses the turkish people.
madam president, with the connivance of the united states and the european union, the government of israel, in defiance of international law, is cutting up the territory of the west bank, taking possession of the best agricultural land, water reserves and building a separation wall that is making life hell for the palestinian people and making the achievement of a palestinian state impossible. the just protests of the palestinian people are being brutally suppressed, women and children are being cruelly targeted, and all this is accompanied by clever propaganda designed to confuse public opinion by deliberately mixing up security and terrorism. peace in the middle east and palestine depends solely on the political will of the major western powers. only with the end of economic and military support for israel will it be possible to return to political negotiations and implement the un resolutions, which impose a solution of a palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem and the return of all illegally occupied settlements.
the report we have adopted today on the european defence union and the report by ioan paşcu on the common security and defence policy are complementary in the face of a challenge which will determine whether the european union is built or allowed to be destroyed. there is an urgent need to rethink europe's defence and security in the face of ongoing strategic shifts in a disorderly world where brexiters, putin, trump and others will tend to paralyse the security council and weaken nato. europe has to wake up, it has to organize. the agreed global strategy and a white paper may be useful, but nothing replaces political will and democratic control - which are clearly insufficient in most member states today - which must be exercised now on the commitment to invest in joint research and technology, in interoperability of equipment and forces, in joint funding and in an integrated view of the internal and external dimensions and the civil and military aspects of the defence and security of all of us. the union must make use of the tools it has created, the tactical clusters in csdp missions, supporting member states both in combating terrorist forces where necessary and in countering aggression and hybrid threats, including in cybersecurity of critical infrastructure. it is late to establish a permanent headquarters, as mrs mogherini said. the union must be able to intervene and make a difference in crises and conflicts, many of which are at the doorstep, others already inside, with an impact on the security of our citizens, our interests, the defence of international law and global security.
mr president, the european union is pursuing its excessive ambition to assert itself as a military bloc by promoting its belligerent, militarist and foreign interference policy. subject to nato's strategy, we are calling for increased defence budgets, increased investment in research and military industry, but imperialist ambition is motivating the creation of a european army to carry out criminal war actions, such as those this parliament has approved on libya and as this parliament is preparing to approve on syria. a policy of blood and death, of war and destruction, to which all in this house who promote and approve it are associated. a policy that fuels the arms race, not forgetting nuclear, increasing world tensions, contradicting commitments made under the non-proliferation and disarmament treaty - a policy that is opposed to peace and compromise, and that is not detached from policies of exploitation and impoverishment of workers and peoples.
the european union is stepping up its militarism. any excuse is good. the aim is to consolidate the eu as an imperialist political-military bloc. in advocating a path of submission to nato strategy, voices are multiplying - from the right to the social democrats - calling for a boost in defence budgets, increased investment in research and military industry. moreover, we are advocating the creation of a european army to carry out criminal acts of war, such as the one this parliament has endorsed on libya and the one it is now preparing to do again on syria. irresponsibly and criminally. a policy of blood and death, of aggression and interference, of war and destruction, to which all those in this house who promote and approve it are associated. a policy which fuels the arms race, not forgetting nuclear, increasing world tensions and contradicting commitments made under the non-proliferation and disarmament treaty. a policy which is opposed to and compromises peace, and which is not detached from the policies of exploitation and impoverishment of the workers and peoples. a policy that deserves our firm opposition and fight!
the report is only one element in the deepening of the reactionary and anti-democratic character of the european union. it is based on values which it claims to defend, but it extends its scope to freedom of communication, information and expression, values which are opposed and compromised by the policies of the european union, the most blatant example of which is the humanitarian crisis of refugees. there are many examples, and you wouldn't even have to leave this house to give them. a strategy of victimisation is followed, not lacking in anti-communist retrograde and blasé rhetoric. the eu is the victim of a powerful media offensive, it is said, compromising its integrity arguments used to push for the limitation and more control of the media, the internet, school curricula and even political parties. the eu's information is declared to be true, propaganda and criticism are distinguished, and what is acceptable criticism is marked. the doors of censorship, which has written so many black pages on european soil, are thus opened. practices worthy of authoritarian and dictatorial regimes.
madam president, low skill rates are intrinsically linked to issues relating to the conditioning and limitation of social, educational and cultural rights. they are not separated from the underlying policy options, which promote deregulation and precariousness at work and which have, among other consequences, the increase in inequalities, social exclusion and permanent poverty. we value initiatives that enable those who have left or been forced to leave the education system at any level to raise their skills levels, and should involve civil society, education authorities and trade unions. this is the only way to ensure that vocational training is not just a social fix, designed to manipulate and mask real levels of unemployment, disconnected from the needs of workers and the labour needs of a given region. these dynamics require and can only be realised if they are accompanied by social policies based on labour regulation and protection, the defence of collective bargaining, wage increases and the fight against precariousness.
i cannot continue in portuguese sign language, otherwise no one would understand me here today. we've come together from all political groups to defend a human rights issue. the work that has been done, and in particular that of my colleague, helga stevens, is worth noting. i must say that discrimination is one of the most active forms of politics, that exclusion is one of the most active forms of politics. what we are asking for here today is nothing too complicated, it is the recognition of national and regional sign languages, also here in the european institutions. it is to have professional, qualified interpreters who are paid adequately. we know, madam president, that to have a full democracy, we must have a situation where everyone can vote and be elected. that is not going to happen if we exclude a million citizens in europe, because not everyone has access to information, not everyone can be the same. the only thing that is really lacking here is political will, it is a human rights issue, so i repeat, let there be political will, commissioner. we can't wait any longer.
madam president, access to sign language interpretation is still treated as a luxury. i have the honour to have signed a motion for a resolution which argues that if we want to ensure the integration of european citizens with hearing impairments, we must provide them with effective means of communication. first of all, each member state should ensure that every hearing-impaired child can fully interact with education professionals from an early age, using sign language interpreters from their country, and should also ensure access to bilingual education in pre-school and school. but this duty to achieve greater integration must also find expression in public services. it is not acceptable that in our day a hearing impaired person cannot communicate with a doctor in the emergency department, a public hospital or with the authorities and the judicial services. i also stress the need to minimise discrimination against deaf people in accessing specialist knowledge, especially higher and postgraduate education, which we all know is essential to combat unemployment. it is therefore urgent that we make every effort to ensure that universities have sign language interpreters or online services to provide this. let's be ambitious. as helen keller said, you can never agree to crawl when you feel the urge to fly.
mr president, poor air quality is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths every year in europe. some 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution considered harmful to human health. many vulnerable sociodemographic groups are also particularly affected. and therefore action is needed! member states will have several pathways to meet the new sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter reduction targets. the promotion of electric mobility is an option that can make a very significant contribution, especially in urban centres. as a member of the committee of inquiry into emissions from the motor vehicle sector in this parliament, i can say this with full knowledge of the facts, and we, commissioner, welcome this report in the wake of the marrakesh summit and the risks posed to the implementation of the paris agreement by the election of the new american president. the global call in marrakesh for the trajectory of the fight against global warming and rising emissions to be maintained is good news, but action is key and this directive, now amended, makes an important contribution to the european union's leadership on this agenda.
in writing. the 22nd session of the conference of the parties (cop22) in marrakesh has come to an end. the objective of making progress in the definition of rules for the implementation of the paris agreement has not been achieved. an event that should have started with measures to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change turned out to be a huge disappointment. the announced marrakesh charter can only go so far as to recognise the need to complete the work programme under the paris agreement 'as soon as possible', setting the time limit for cop 24 at the end of 2018. it has once again become clear that the paris agreement, which entered into force on 4 november, will only be able to move beyond paper with a strong mobilisation of the people and workers in defence of the environment and the climate, and by transforming our society with another model of development, socialism.
‒ in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament, it is necessary to approve the calendar of partsessions for 2018, as provided for in rule 145 thereof. because it is a question of formal legality, although related to internal organization, i voted in favour of the proposed calendar for the parliamentary session period in 2018.
‒ it is always an uncomfortable gesture to approve this calendar for 2018, when we are facing a huge social and political storm whose outcome is impossible to predict. the eu is sick with contradictions that are self-evident. the blindness of the institutions and their refusal to see the obvious has only aggravated the crisis and left a dark horizon in sight, and has given rise to the possible futility of this vote.
‒ the eu-canada free trade agreement is a milestone in the eu's trade policy, eliminating more than 99% of the customs duties currently imposed on trade between the eu and canada. i understand the concerns of citizens and businesses, but there are no perfect agreements, and i am sure that it will be easier for the union as a whole to protect our interests than for individual member states. in a context where some of the world's most influential countries have turned to nationalism and protectionist measures, we must respond with more international trade, which translates into economic growth and job creation. the legal objections to this resolution seem to me to be based more on the political will to impede the agreement than on a concern that the treaties are being violated. furthermore, the legal services of the council, the commission and the european parliament were consulted on the matter and gave their opinion on the compatibility of the provisions of the agreement with the eu treaties.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of human rights, the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the victims of human rights violations are respected. the eu is preparing to bring this treaty into force, which has very serious impacts on many productive sectors, on employment, the environment and public health. it is preparing to do so following opaque negotiations and through a process which is a disrespect for democracy and the sovereignty of states. we are reminded here of the web of pressure and blackmail on the people in europe who have raised their voices against this agreement, which is also an attempt to force ttip (negotiated alongside ceta) and us companies into europe through the back door. we have no illusions about the nature of the court of justice of the eu, its role and, above all, the content of the treaties which govern its action. we support this request as a way of prolonging the period of enlightenment, mobilisation and struggle of the populations against this treaty which represents an intolerable social and economic setback.
‒ i voted against the two motions for resolutions tabled by the gue and the alde on the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. this is a delaying expedient which will delay the negotiating process. i am in favour of an agreement between the two blocs on this subject, which is compatible with european union law.
‒ today we have witnessed another dark page in the history of this parliament. in the face of the chorus of protest over ceta, the reservations raised by very diverse parties, institutions and associations throughout the european continent, this parliament has made it impossible to hold a debate which would have had the merit of clarifying its real objectives and confronting the different political groups and parties with their view of the agreement. the vote on a motion for a resolution without the right to debate says a lot about the quality of democracy in the european parliament. ceta was discussed in secret for seven years and presented as a 1600-page document with no possibility of amendment. ceta is an instrument designed to liberalise trade relations and open public markets to multinationals, while levelling down all social and environmental standards. this is what the right wing and social democracy refuse to discuss, to their detriment and ignoring the struggle and just demands of the people.
‒ on 27 april 2009, the council authorised the commission to negotiate an economic integration agreement with canada on behalf of the european union and its member states. the negotiation and ratification of the canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) took about six years. in addition, not only european and canadian experts, but also various european institutions and other supranational bodies were involved in this procedure. the agreement was approved in the european council and signed at the canada summit on 30 october 2016. i believe that ceta is in accordance with all the rules of the european legal order. in view of the foregoing and in recognition of the crucial importance of the agreement in question, i am voting against this report.
‒ the spirit of ceta is to abolish virtually all customs duties; to provide new opportunities for access to the labour market; to provide better access for european suppliers and to increase the competitiveness of eu companies in the market. the eu must give a signal of confidence to its partners in canada.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the draft budget for the european union, and that the council should be given the right to vote on the draft budget for the european union. the committee on international trade asked the ep's legal services for an opinion on the matter on 7 april, and the reply was given on 1 june, stating in its conclusions that 'taking into account the purpose and content of the chapter on investment in the ecsc, the provisions for the settlement of investment disputes can be considered compatible with the eu treaties'. given the central importance of the court of justice of the eu in the eu's architecture, it seems clear to me that we should not (let) it be instrumentalised, allowing it to be used as a partisan political weapon. for the reasons set out above, i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european parliament should give a strong signal of support and not of weakness to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. i voted against the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the new dispute settlement system (investment court system - ics) included in the trade agreement with canada (ceta) as a mere expedient for suspending the provisional application of the agreement, despite the achievements in the negotiations, largely due to pressure from the socialists. in addition, the legal service of the european parliament (ep) has already issued an opinion concluding that there is no incompatibility and that, in any event, it is assured that belgium will ask the court of justice for the same opinion. it is one thing to ask for an opinion without blocking provisional application, as belgium proposes to do, but it is another to ask for it in order to hold off on provisional application for two years, threatening the agreement itself, as would happen with this proposal. there is no justification for this in the light of the outcome of the negotiations and the understanding reached with wallonia, especially since it is known that the ics system is excluded from provisional application. finally, the immediate application of ceta, albeit in instalments, brings important benefits to the portuguese economy by eliminating or reducing the heavy customs duties that seriously harm the exports of our traditional sectors.
‒ today we have witnessed another dark page in the history of this parliament. in the face of the chorus of protest over ceta, the reservations raised by parties and associations of all kinds, this parliament has made it impossible to hold a debate which would have had the merit of clarifying its real objectives and of confronting each member with a free and democratic debate. we shall therefore be voting on a draft resolution without the right to debate, which says a lot about the quality of democracy in this house. ceta was discussed in secret for seven years and presented as a 1600-page document with no possibility of amendment. ceta is an instrument designed to open up public markets to multinationals and to level all social and environmental standards. this is what parliament refuses to discuss. the european parliament has a duty to act.
in writing. - i voted against the referral of the ceta agreement (comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada) for the opinion of the court of justice because i consider that the dynamisation of international treaties is a necessary response to the isolationist and nationalist tendencies that are gaining strength in the world and because the entry into force of ceta before ratification by the 28 member states is of a provisional nature and does not include the ics (arbitration mechanism) whose compliance may be checked before the treaty's final entry into force, without forcing its freezing at this stage.
‒ in 2013, the european commission adopted a package of proposals to improve air quality in europe, called the 'air quality package'. the main part of the package is a proposal to revise the national emission ceilings directive (nec). the current european commission considered withdrawing the proposal in 2014, but due to strong resistance from the european parliament and several ngos the proposal was maintained. the revised nec directive provides for controls on different types of pollutants in the member states. it will aim to halve the number of premature deaths estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu caused by air pollution by 2030. this proposal for revision sets new national emission reduction commitments, applicable from 2020 and 2030, for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nvocs) and ammonia (nh3), and for fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4) as well. as a result of the vote in the environment committee, among other things, mercury (hg) was added to the list of pollutants, the 2025 average targets were added to the legislation, methane targets were postponed until 2030 (to give the agricultural sector time to adapt) and the european commission's flexibility proposal was dropped.
‒ this report concerns the emission of certain air pollutants with a view to their reduction and the improvement of air quality conditions. initially, the measures proposed by the european parliament and the commission were much stronger. however, these measures suffered several limitations and cuts during the negotiations with the council, supported by several eu countries. based on a recent who report, air pollution is the greatest environmental health hazard, with an estimated three million air pollution-related deaths occurring each year. this report, among other weaknesses, does not include some air pollutants whose emission seriously threatens the environment and health. i voted against it.
‒ policy-making based on hard data should be the cornerstone of eu legislation. laws should be based on robust and comprehensive impact assessments, which explain why the legislation addresses the fundamental questions of whether a proposal is necessary and proportionate and evaluates the best action at eu level. in the case of air quality, the answer is clear: it is a significant cross-border human health and environmental issue, which deeply affects all eu citizens and requires immediate action. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ in 2013, the european commission adopted the 'air quality package' of proposals to improve air quality in europe. the main part of the package is a proposal to revise the national emission ceilings directive (nec). the current european commission considered withdrawing the proposal in 2014, but due to strong resistance from the european parliament and several ngos the proposal was maintained. the revised nec directive provides for controls on different types of pollutants in the member states. it will aim to halve the number of premature deaths estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu caused by air pollution by 2030. this proposal for revision sets new national emission reduction commitments, applicable from 2020 and 2030, for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nvocs) and ammonia (nh3), and for fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4) as well. as a result of the vote in the environment committee, among other things, mercury (hg) was added to the list of pollutants, the 2025 average targets were added to the legislation, methane targets were postponed until 2030 (to give the agricultural sector time to adapt) and the european commission's flexibility proposal was dropped.
in writing. this proposal on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants is part of the clean air for europe programme announced by the commission on 18 december 2013. after years of political neglect, air pollution has emerged on the international agenda as a major public health problem. there is no doubt that poor air quality contributes to premature death, sickness absence from work, lost productivity, lost crop yields and damage to buildings. significant health costs are another consequence of poor air quality, with the total external health-related costs to society from air pollution in europe estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the existing directive on national emission limit values for certain air pollutants, setting new emission limit values for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-metallic volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030. since these values reflect the limits that have been agreed internationally under the gothenburg protocol and since only compliance with these limits by the member states will enable them to meet their emission reduction targets, i voted in favour.
‒ poor air quality is responsible for about 400 000 deaths a year. added to this is the enormous financial effort in medical care. the commission has adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. it's a more ambitious proposal. different limits are defined for each member state and for each pollutant. the proposal is the result of difficult negotiations with the council. there were several controversial issues between the groups, mainly those related to the inclusion of methane and the demand for less ambitious targets for ammonia. it was agreed to support the full inclusion of ammonia and to exempt enteric methane emissions from ruminant cattle. the s&ds wanted more ambitious targets, but we support the agreement as it is the best that can be achieved without risking the directive being retained indefinitely in the council.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. i would remind you that air pollution is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths per year throughout the european union. with the adoption of this report, parliament approved new national emission reduction targets, setting national emission limit values for certain air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter. new targets are also set to reduce the health impacts of air pollution by around 50% by 2030, with different limits for each member state and each pollutant. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments contained in this proposal for a directive, as they contribute to improving air quality and combating environmental and public health problems.
in writing. the report finds that after years of political neglect, air pollution has emerged on the political agenda as a major public health problem. poor air quality contributes to premature death, sickness absence from work, significant health costs, lost productivity, lost crop yields and damage to buildings. thus, according to the report, in europe, the total external costs to society related to health and caused by air pollution are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. in addition, there is a growing body of evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition is leading to changes in the natural environment with impacts on biodiversity. unfortunately, the real causes of this inertia are not addressed, and the appeal is to ever more complex and ineffective regulation. for our part, pollution and the inability to deal with this problem stem from the policies of privatisation of vast sectors of the economy, including transport and energy, condemning the states to be mere passive spectators of the progressive destruction of the planet.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i would stress that poor air quality is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths every year and has an estimated health impact of between 300 and 900 billion euros each year. i therefore welcome the proposals in this report to set more ambitious air quality targets, which will reduce the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030. i would also stress the role of clean electric mobility as an option that can make a very significant contribution to the fight against the reduction of emissions harmful to health. finally, i would also like to stress the global call made in marrakesh to maintain the trajectory of combating global warming, and this directive, now amended, will make an important contribution to this by the european union.
‒ in the face of the neo-liberal offensive of the 1980s and the deregulatory and liberalising fury that deregulated the financial sector, it was soon realised that private banking needed some rules or else the whole system would be called into question. the rules created from basel i to iii aim to impose minimum levels of equity capital. however, the rules for their accounting have become increasingly complex and opaque, as befits interest groups that always take advantage of the lack of transparency. today, asset risk assessment models are the responsibility of the so-called systemic banks, unlike others which are subject to a standardised model. so we have in practice assets with different weights from bank to bank. so we have a system where the solvency ratios and the stress tests are completely manipulated by the big banks, thus taking away any credibility from the entire supervisory system. the solution is simple for us. credit is too important to be left to the free initiative of the private sector. public control of the banking and financial system is now more than ever a necessity.
‒ banks need to be well capitalised to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the massive bailouts seen during the crisis. adequate regulation of the shadow banking sector is necessary to ensure fair competition and financial stability. a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for preserving financial stability, ensuring adequate credit supply to the real economy over the cycle and enhancing economic growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ after the neo-conservative wave of the 1980s and the neo-liberal fury that deregulated the financial sector, it was soon realised that private banking needed some rules or else the whole system would be called into question. the rules created from basel i to iii aim to impose minimum levels of equity capital. however, the rules for their accounting are becoming increasingly complex and opaque, as befits the interest groups that always profit from the lack of transparency. today, the public is being led to believe that the risk assessment models for assets are the responsibility of the so-called systemic banks, unlike the others which are subject to a standardised model. in other words, as a standard & poor's study has shown, we have assets with different weights from bank to bank, and therefore a system in which solvency ratios and stress tests are completely manipulated by the big banks, thus removing any credibility from the entire supervisory system. the solution is simple for us. credit is too important to be left to the free initiative of the private sector. public control of the banking and financial system is an imperative need today.
‒ a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a sine qua non condition for financial stability, ensuring adequate credit supply to the real economy and economic growth. in the wake of the recent global financial crisis, g20 leaders approved a comprehensive reform agenda that benefits international banking systems, including strengthening prudential requirements. in this respect, it is of the utmost importance that banks are capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce the risk of systemic crises and avoid a repetition of the massive bailouts seen during the crisis. i support the need for appropriate regulation of the banking sector in order to ensure fair competition and financial stability. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that banks are an efficient element of our economy and not a risk element. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the huge bailouts seen during the crisis. the ongoing work of the basel commission should promote a global level playing field by reducing differences between jurisdictions and banking models and not unduly penalising the eu banking model. the position taken by parliament in this resolution is to stress the need for greater transparency and accountability.
‒ the banking system needs to be resilient and adequately capitalised, which is essential for preserving financial stability, ensuring adequate credit supply to the real economy over the cycle, and enhancing economic growth and job creation. the eu needs appropriate regulation of the banking sector to ensure fair competition and financial stability, as banks play a key role in financing the economy, being the main source of finance for households, businesses and citizens in general. eu legislation has tried to reflect this aspect of banking activity from an early stage. the work to finalise the basel iii framework will aim at enhancing the simplification, comparability and convergence of the risk-weighted capital framework, while underlining the need for greater transparency and accountability. this review should promote a level playing field worldwide by mitigating differences between different jurisdictions and banking models, without prejudice to the european banking model. i think it is important that this work can be carried out effectively and reliably, in the interests of the proper functioning and applicability of banking legislation, and i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ after the neo-conservative wave of the 1980s and the neo-liberal fury that deregulated the financial sector, it was soon realised that private banking needed some rules or else the whole system would be called into question. the rules created from basel i to iii aim to impose minimum levels of equity capital. however, the rules for their accounting are becoming increasingly complex and opaque, as befits the interest groups that always profit from the lack of transparency. today, the public learns that asset risk assessment models are the responsibility of the so-called systemic banks, unlike others which are subject to a standardised model. so we have, as a standard & poor's study has shown, assets with different weights from bank to bank. so we have a system where the solvency ratios and the stress tests are completely manipulated by the big banks, thus taking away any credibility from the entire supervisory system. the solution is simple for us. credit is too important to be left to the free initiative of the private sector. public control of the banking and financial system is now more than a matter of course, it is a necessity.
‒ the european union faces a set of threats, both conventional and hybrid, created by states and non-state actors from the south and the east. this complex framework requires an operational and effective common security and defence policy (csdp). this is recognised by two thirds of european citizens, who favour greater european commitment to security and defence (eurobarometer). to this end, i advocate a revision of the csdp to establish the permanent structured cooperation provided for in the treaties. i believe that the increase in defence investment (ideally to 2% of gdp) should be complemented by better defence procurement processes and include greater support for research. we need a more capable and competitive defence industry. i support the desire to establish a permanent eu headquarters for civil and military operations, but i am alert to the need to coordinate action with nato as a pillar of europe's collective defence. in this respect, the eu-nato relationship should be strengthened and include cooperation with other partners such as the african union or the osce. i share the concern about cybersecurity as the most urgent vector in greater defence cooperation. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report pursues essentially the same objectives as the report on the so-called european defence union, adopted at the same session. increased defence budgets of the member states, financing and development of military industry and research, creation of european military forces, specialisation of military forces by member state, increased cooperation with nato and the eu's ambition to become a military bloc. all in the name of fighting terrorism, radicalisation and reinforcing the confrontation and the siege of russia, obliterating any analysis of eu responsibilities in military conflicts in neighbouring regions. the report is part of the militaristic escalation that is taking place in the eu and that the eu is actively promoting, with the european parliament playing its part. this attitude is fuelling the arms race, not forgetting nuclear, is increasing world tensions, is contrary to commitments made under the non-proliferation and disarmament treaty, and is increasing the risks of a large-scale military conflict with unforeseen consequences. a policy which is opposed to and compromises peace, and which is not detached from the policies of exploitation and impoverishment of the workers and peoples. the eu reveals its true face as an enemy of peace. we could only vote against it, of course.
‒ this report builds on the council's annual report on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), which calls for an increase in the eu's military component and increased investment in defence research, promotes a strong defence industry and defends the nato target of 2% of gdp for defence spending. this common security and defence policy (csdp) could not be more wrong as regards the principles on which it is based. the militarization of the eu, the financing of the military through the union budget, by accepting the measures proposed by nato, are inconceivable and unacceptable ideas. i voted against it.
‒ the security of eu member states is highly interconnected, but they react to common threats and risks in a disorganised and fragmented way, thus making a common approach more difficult or often impossible to implement. this lack of coordination is one of the weak points of the union's action. europe lacks the resilience to deal effectively with hybrid threats, which often have a cross-border dimension. a more unified and therefore more effective european foreign and security policy can make a decisive contribution to reducing the intensity of armed conflicts around the world. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report pursues essentially the same objectives as the european defence union report, adopted at the same session. increased defence budgets of the member states, financing and development of military industry and research, creation of european military forces, specialisation of military forces by member state, increased cooperation with nato and ambition to become a military bloc. all in the name of fighting terrorism, radicalisation and reinforcing the confrontation and the siege of russia, obliterating any analysis of eu responsibilities in military conflicts in neighbouring regions. a policy of blood and death, of war and destruction, promoted by the majority of the european parliament. a policy which fuels the arms race, not forgetting nuclear, which increases world tensions, goes against commitments made under the non-proliferation and disarmament treaty, and increases the risks of a large-scale military conflict with unforeseen consequences. a policy which is opposed to and compromises peace, and which is not detached from the policies of exploitation and impoverishment of the workers and peoples. we could only vote against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. the threats facing the european union today are both conventional and hybrid, created by both states and non-state actors, coming from the south and the east and affecting member states differently. the multiplicity of humanitarian crises currently affecting the periphery of the union, in particular west africa, the sahel, the horn of africa, the middle east and eastern ukraine to the caucasus, calls for a european response in the field of security and defence. the union should therefore intensify dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region, as well as with regional and sub-regional organisations. at the same time, acts of terrorism by radical organisations and individuals are targeting europe on an unprecedented scale, putting the european way of life under pressure and making the safety of european citizens a priority. i believe that the eu must prepare itself to face structural changes in the international security landscape in order to face new - but, frankly, not so new - defence and security challenges. i therefore voted in favour.
‒ this report focuses on the need to strengthen european cooperation in the field of defence - a long-standing dream of the european union (eu) since the pleven plan. in recent years, insecurity in europe and its neighbours has worsened exponentially, creating a host of new challenges that we must address collectively. i therefore support the need to strengthen collaboration and cooperation between the european armed forces, in particular through some of the recommendations presented with a view to combating terrorism and the various daily threats to the security of citizens more effectively. the proposals for a european headquarters, a european defence semester, a minimum investment of 2% of gdp by member states for defence are somewhat controversial and do not generate unanimous opinion within the european parliament. however, they are all ambitious proposals - which deserve reflection and negotiation until we reach a more consensual outcome that gives priority to collective security in europe. i also support the idea of a thorough review of the common security and defence policy, which would enable the eu and the member states to contribute more to the security of the union as a whole by asserting their strategic autonomy in this area.
‒ the european union as a military bloc promotes its belligerent, militarist and foreign interference policy. in a position of total subordination to nato, it calls for the strengthening of defence budgets, increased investment in research and military industry, and the creation of a european army, possibly for future criminal war actions such as the one this parliament has approved on libya and as this parliament is preparing to approve on syria. a policy of blood and death, of war and destruction, to which all in this house who promote and approve it are associated. a policy which fuels the arms race, not forgetting nuclear, increasing world tensions, and contradicting commitments made under the non-proliferation and disarmament treaty. a policy which is opposed to and compromises peace, and which is not detached from the policies of exploitation and impoverishment of the workers and peoples.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the pascu report, because i agree with the proposals on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. i stress my support for the development of an autonomous defence capability by the eu, with the aim of protecting its citizens and promoting their interests in full compliance with the treaties, international law and human rights.
‒ it is undeniable that there is a group of organisations and even states engaged in promoting propaganda and counter-information against the european union. from terrorist organizations like daesh to states like russia, disinformation efforts have multiplied. equally worrying has been the use of the internet and social networks to incite hatred and violence. the union cannot and must not renounce its principles of respect for freedom of expression and the independence of the media, but it has an obligation to react. i particularly welcome the 'action plan for strategic communication' and the need to support media freedom in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, and i therefore support mrs fotyga's report.
the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. it is based on the values it claims to defend, and includes in its scope the freedoms of communication, information and expression. values that eu policies contradict and compromise, the most blatant example being the humanitarian crisis of migrants and refugees. it integrates a strategy of victimisation, building a supposed context of offensive against the eu, in a so-called unprecedented information war, a powerful media offensive, it is said, compromising its territorial integrity and the sovereignty of states, seeking the internal destabilisation of the eu and nato members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. arguments used to push for limitation and more control of media, the internet, school curricula and even political parties. the eu's information is declared to be true, propaganda and criticism are distinguished, and what is acceptable criticism is marked. the doors of censorship are thus opened which have been written on european soil by so many black pages. practices worthy of authoritarian and dictatorial regimes. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ strategic communication and information warfare are not only an external but also an internal matter of the eu. we must be concerned about the growing number of hostile propaganda broadcasters in the union. the propaganda and disinformation strategy of third countries against the eu can take different forms and involve, inter alia, traditional media, social networks, school curricula and political parties, both inside and outside the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is based on the values it claims to defend and extends its scope to the freedoms of communication, information and expression. values that the european union's policies contradict and compromise, the most glaring example of which is the humanitarian refugee crisis. it integrates a strategy of victimisation, building a supposed context of offensive against the eu, in a so-called unprecedented information war, a powerful media offensive, it is said, compromising its territorial integrity and the sovereignty of states, seeking the internal destabilisation of the eu and nato members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. arguments used to push for limitation and more control of media, the internet, school curricula and even political parties. the eu's information is declared to be true, propaganda and criticism are distinguished, and what is acceptable criticism is marked. the doors of censorship are thus opened which have written so many black pages on european soil. practices worthy of authoritarian and dictatorial regimes. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the union, its member states and its citizens are under increasing and systematic pressure to curb propaganda and information campaigns, disinformation and misrepresentation by other entities in the multifaceted complex of the international community today, including terrorist and criminal organisations. these actors often seek to challenge the very concept of objective information or journalistic ethics and treat all information as biased or as an instrument of political power by distorting facts and creating divisions between member states. the pluralism, objectivity, impartiality and independence of the media both within the union and in its neighbourhood need to be strengthened. this is possible by supporting journalists and developing capacity building programmes for media actors, promoting partnerships and networks for the exchange of information, media-related research and mobility and training opportunities for journalists. because freedom of the press, access to information and freedom of expression are fundamental pillars of a democratic system, in which transparency of media ownership and funding is of the utmost importance, i approve this report.
‒ the report identifies two threats in terms of propaganda: daesh and russia. the aim will be to combat propaganda and radicalisation through cooperation between member states and the european institutions. one of the controversial and unacceptable points of the report is that it puts russia, a sovereign state, on the same level as a terrorist organisation. the socialist and democratic group therefore abstained in plenary.
‒ in recent years, incitement to hatred and the use of violence have had a growing media impact, thanks to the use of new information and communication technologies, which transmit content much more directly, quickly and effectively. particularly worrying is the propaganda directed against the european union (eu) by third parties. the eu and its citizens have therefore been subject to increasing pressure and it is urgent to combat biased and negative (i would even say 'black') propaganda and information from third countries and non-state actors such as terrorist organisations and/or criminal organisations, while preserving those which are its core values, such as democracy or freedom of expression. in this regard, it has outlined a communication strategy to stop attacks of this nature - the action plan for strategic communication. the measures include additional funding to support training and media freedom (avoiding biased information), as well as focusing on education and bringing local communities closer together. i agree with the rapporteur that greater cooperation and coordination between all the actors at eu level is needed to ensure the success of this strategy, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
‒ this report, based on the values it claims to defend, extends its scope to the freedoms of communication, information and expression, values that are opposed and compromised by the policies of the european union, the most blatant example of which is the humanitarian refugee crisis. there are many examples and you wouldn't even have to leave this house to give them. the strategy of victimisation, which is not lacking in anti-communist retrograde and blasé rhetoric, is all too evident. the eu is the victim of a powerful media offensive, it is said, compromising its integrity. with these arguments, one advances towards the limitation and control of the media, the internet, school curricula and even political parties. the eu's information is absolutized as true by distinguishing between propaganda and criticism, marking what is acceptable criticism. this opens the door to censorship and other practices worthy of authoritarian and dictatorial regimes whose memory should still prevail in europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the point concerning eu strategic communication to counter propaganda directed against it by third parties because it is necessary to send a strong signal against anti-european propaganda, but i consider that all propaganda cannot be placed in the same matrix of analysis. the propaganda targeting the eu and its citizens is a fact and the need to use strategic communication to combat it is obvious, but i believe that mixing the state and non-state actors is not the best approach for a european parliament resolution on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in europe alone, there are about one million sign language users and more than 50 million people with a hearing disability. these figures are sufficient to understand the impact of any measure in this area. however, there is no holistic approach at european level to this issue, which must take into account the increasing mobility of citizens, with the resulting language barriers, as well as the specificities of the online world, in particular in access to public services. this resolution identifies these challenges in detail and presents a set of solutions and best practices, intended to be a first step towards their implementation. in this connection, parliament - as this resolution proposes - must implement a set of measures to combat unjustified discrimination within the home. i therefore support this resolution.
‒ the issues of sign language and interpreting are of paramount importance. this resolution comes a few days after the national day of portuguese sign language, an event that should be valued in respect for the inclusion of its users. the cfp has taken some measures in this direction through its intervention in the assembly of the republic. here are some measures to consider: - the need to provide technical support for deaf pupils, including interpretation (so that it is not paid for by the families); - considering that few companies have the resources to include deaf people, it is important to promote services that promote an inclusive policy (availability of interpreters); - to promote the recognition of sign languages as official languages; - to involve associations of deaf people in policy-making; - improve the professional status of interpreters and teachers of sign language by placing them on an equal footing with equivalent professionals (other language interpreters and teachers); - allow bilingual people/children to enter schools which use sign language; - develop technologies that enable access to emergency or other services (such as the recently announced measure '112'). this resolution, which is of an eminently technical nature, emphasizes the needs of deaf people. many of the issues that are part of our proposals in this area are included. we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as full citizens, all persons with disabilities, including deaf and hard of hearing persons, including those who use and those who do not use sign language, enjoy the same rights and have the inalienable right to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. the eu institutions should be an example of good practice to eu citizens in adopting reasonable accommodation measures and accessibility measures, including the provision of sign language interpretation. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the issues of sign language and interpreting are of extreme relevance in the face of the continued disregard for the rights of deaf people and their families. the resolution incorporates many of the issues on which we have been speaking with concrete proposals, including: - the need to provide technical support for deaf pupils, including interpretation; - the need to promote services that promote an inclusive policy, seeking to counteract the exclusion factors, including access to employment, to which deaf people are subject; - the need to recognise sign languages as official languages; - the need to involve associations of deaf people in policy-making; - the need to improve the professional status of interpreters and sign language teachers by equipping them with equivalent professionals; - the need to allow bilingual people and children to enter schools that use sign language; - the need to develop technologies that allow access to emergency or other services. the resolution, which is eminently technical, rightly emphasizes the needs of deaf people, which is why it was voted in favour.
‒ all european citizens deserve equal treatment and equal opportunities, regardless of their differences. in this sense, in view of the provisions of the tfeu, the european union must combat potential inequalities in the definition and implementation of its policies and activities. in this context, citizens with special needs, such as deaf and other hearing impaired persons, including those who communicate through sign language, should enjoy the same status as the rest of society. thus, the human dignity inherent in their existence and inalienable, as well as the right to equal treatment, autonomy and full and active participation in society, must be guaranteed to these citizens. today, there are about one million deaf people in the european union, as well as 51 million citizens with severe hearing impairments who communicate using sign language. the recognition of sign language as an official language in the member states and their organisations is therefore crucial. consequently, my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ as full citizens, all persons with disabilities in particular women and children, including deaf and hard of hearing people, including those who use and those who do not use sign language enjoy the same rights and have the inalienable right to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. there are about one million sign language users in the european union and 51 million citizens with a hearing disability, many of whom are also sign language users. the need for qualified interpreters and sign language professionals, the improvement of accessibility to these services and the guarantee of equal opportunities in employment, education and training are therefore priority issues.
‒ all citizens, and in particular citizens with disabilities, are entitled to equal rights, including the right to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. there are currently around one million sign language users in the european union (eu) and 51 million citizens with a hearing impairment, many of whom are sign language users. the tfeu states that the eu aims to combat discrimination on the grounds of disability in the definition and implementation of its policies and actions, and therefore gives the eu mechanisms to adopt legislation to combat such discrimination. the proposal lists measures for the eu to strengthen the promotion of the qualifications of interpreters and sign language professionals, the inclusion of sign language in the various public services, the political and democratic process and digital services. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider the provision of sign language interpretation to be a fundamental measure which helps to combat discrimination and facilitates the inclusion of millions of people with hearing impairments.
‒ this resolution comes a few days after the national day of portuguese sign language, an event that should be valued, in respect for the inclusion of its users. it corresponds to the need to provide technical support for deaf pupils, including interpretation (so that it is not paid for by families), and to help companies with resources to include deaf people (which exclude, for example, a deaf person from a job interview) and to boost services that promote an inclusive policy (availability of interpreters). in the case of this resolution, its highly technical nature is considered to emphasize the needs of deaf people. many of the issues which are part of our proposals in this area are included, so the resolution can be supported.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the time-limit laid down in regulation (eu) no 1141/2010, an application was submitted for the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance benthazone, as the authorisation initially expired on 30 june 2016. this resolution opposes the draft implementing measure of the european commission approving the renewal of the substance for another 15 years. there are legitimate concerns regarding the effects of this active substance on the environment, which justify the further development and improvement of the available knowledge with a view to taking the measures necessary for the protection of the environment and public health. it should be borne in mind that the substance is highly dependent on certain crops, such as rice, and that there are currently no restrictions on the use of bentazone, whereas in the past the substance was only authorised for use as a herbicide. in view of the problem of the lack of alternative, which is cited by several producers, it would be appropriate to consider immediately the compulsory reduction of the doses of application and the concentration of this active substance, while taking into account the role of the adjuvants, the necessary inhibition of harmful parallel actions and thus the facilitation of decomposition.
‒ the active substance bentazone acts as a selective post-emergence herbicide against broadleaf weed infestants on a wide range of crops and is commonly used in agriculture. the active substance bentazone, due to its intrinsic properties, has a high potential for leaching into groundwater. in view of the foregoing and the terms in which this proposal was put forward, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the time-limit laid down in regulation (eu) no 1141/2010, an application was submitted for the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone, as the authorisation initially expired on 30 june 2016. this resolution opposes the draft implementing measure of the european commission approving the renewal of the substance for another 15 years. there are legitimate concerns regarding the effects of this active substance on the environment, which justify the further development and improvement of the available knowledge with a view to taking the measures necessary for the protection of the environment and public health. it should be borne in mind that the substance is highly dependent on certain crops, such as rice, and that there are currently no restrictions on the use of bentazone, whereas in the past the substance was only authorised for use as a herbicide. in view of the problem of the lack of alternative, which is cited by several producers, it would be appropriate to consider immediately the compulsory reduction of the doses of application and the concentration of this active substance, while taking into account the role of the adjuvants, the necessary inhibition of harmful parallel actions and thus the facilitation of decomposition.
in writing. - i voted against this motion for a resolution which objects to the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone, which in portugal is registered in maize, rice and peas, the two main staple crops of national agriculture. this type of herbicide has proven to be an important tool for farmers as it contributes to the maintenance of sustainable pest control of the crops for which it is authorised. for this reason, and because both the report and efsa stress that this substance does not represent an increased risk to human health or the environment, i considered that there would be insufficient reasons to object to its renewal, especially in view of the impact that such a measure would have on european farmers in general and portuguese farmers in particular.
‒ this resolution defends the precautionary principle, denounced the eu procedures through delegated acts for the authorisation of these substances. our solution would be to allow more time for further studies to clarify this issue, preserving an intermediate transition period capable of answering the production questions. in that sense, we abstain.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20 years have passed since the international day for the elimination of violence against women was proclaimed, but worrying figures still persist: one in 20 european women has been raped, one in five has been harassed. this data makes one piece of evidence clear. this is a fight of men and women and a cause of each and every one of us. we therefore call on the member states which have not yet done so to ratify the istanbul convention. we therefore call on the council to move forward with the negotiations for accession to the european union. but let me be clear: this is a change that is not achieved by this debate or by ratifying a treaty. it is a change that requires constant and laborious work. we are the continent that fights the most for human rights in the world. we must also be a beacon of hope in this area for the millions of women who, here and abroad, still suffer simply because they are women.
mrs president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every day hundreds of women feel the violence on their skin and bodies from those who believe that being a woman is a misfortune of nature, a social and cultural destiny that destroys their souls. in fact, we all know that this is just a way of maintaining a meaningless justification for violence. violence that comes in many forms: in the marked body, in the denial of another's power to decide about my own body, in the denial of my reproductive health rights, in the denial of my education, in premature death, simply because i'm a woman. we're talking about those who understand that being genitally mutilated is just another bad luck. no longer from nature, but from culture, education and our history. and this is what we have to fight. we have a trump card in our hand, commissioner. and we must give a sign, a sign of solidarity with all women, a sign that we believe, as a whole, in equality, this unique european value.
mr president, the signing of this convention will not produce results unless it is accompanied by concrete policies to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is also symptomatic that the resolution that will be voted on has no reference, much less any relation, between the right-wing policies of attack on social and labour rights, or the austerity policies that the european union has imposed and the increase in inequalities, poverty and social exclusion, the high levels of unemployment, job insecurity and how these phenomena particularly affect women and contribute to the increase in sexual and domestic violence, which in portugal killed 428 women between 2004 and 2015, or to the increase in prostitution and human trafficking networks. this reality requires a change in social and labour policies aimed at eliminating all forms of violence against women, but also at eliminating inequalities, strengthening social and labour protection, ending precariousness and raising wages.
mr president, the people of jordan undoubtedly deserve the solidarity of the european union, and this parliament should clearly support the granting of macrofinancial assistance as agreed with the council, also thanks to the excellent work of our colleague emmanuel maurel. everyone knows the situation on the ground: jordan is being affected by instability in the region, it faces serious humanitarian and security problems and, despite this, it has set a remarkable example of generosity in welcoming refugees. these reasons are more than sufficient to justify european financial support to jordan. this is how we fulfil our duty to show solidarity in a concrete way and to actively support a stable partner in a region in turmoil.
mr president, by 2060 the degree of social dependency on the working age population in the european union will exceed 140%, which requires, as i have been stressing in my reports on the european semester, that we make socially responsible reforms of pension systems to ensure that my generation will be entitled to worthy retirement. it is economically unacceptable to continue to burden public pension schemes which rely solely on solidarity between generations, threatened by the worrying levels of youth unemployment we have seen , just as it is economically unacceptable to continue to ignore the results of demographic changes, namely the increase in the average life expectancy of europeans and the decline in birth rates, as well as the late start of work. public pension schemes must continue to ensure dignity in old age, and remain pillars of a european social model. but it is increasingly sensible today to promote and strengthen supplementary pension schemes, linked to employment contracts, which allow workers to voluntarily secure a stable financial future. the member states must be able to provide mechanisms for the supervision of these occupational pension schemes, ensuring that they are a credible and safe complement to our citizens, and ensuring that they are transparent, so that our fellow citizens are aware of their conditions and can thus make informed decisions about their future.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, the committee on fisheries stresses that this action plan is largely lacking in respect of the aquatic domain. unfortunately, there are serious problems in the aquatic world, including the marine environment, related to the trafficking of wildlife, including charismatic species like corals and turtles, among many others. it must be acknowledged that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing still exists in european seas and rivers, and part of it is based on wildlife trafficking. when we press for behavioural change in third countries by issuing them yellow and red cards, we have not yet been effective in controlling the fishing for glass eels, for example, sturgeon, hake and many others within our own borders. it called for greater coordination between the various commission directorates-general and for new methodologies and technologies to be applied in the fight against trafficking. finally, it is suggested that a prize be created to recognise the efforts of those who, on land or at sea, defend wildlife, sometimes at the risk of their own lives.
author. - mr president, our position is very clear: we would prefer that the european parliament did not go down this road. it's unfair and counterproductive. the brazilian authorities, in recent decades, with governments of various political colours, have made enormous progress in protecting human rights on all fronts and, in particular, in defending indigenous peoples and also the guarani-kaiowá people. it is enough to know the detailed response that brazil gave to the un special rapporteur's report, a response that many of the parliamentarians seem to ignore. no one denies that there is a human rights problem here and that more and better work needs to be done, but it is not a problem that justifies this position, which i quote, is extremely condemnable. this situation has nothing to do with any other we have here, and well, doomed. we have done our part to bring the issue into the realm of human rights. if that is the case, we will support the motion with reservations, but if the radical version and the references to brazil's internal politics, which we see in the original text and especially in amendments, win, we cannot subscribe to it. colleagues, this is not the kind of help the guarani-kaiowá people need. i hope parliament will realise this in time.
author. mr president, the guarani-kaiowá of mato grosso do sul do not have enough land to provide for their subsistence and the existing indigenous reserves are overcrowded. this leads to living in conditions of extreme poverty, often in precarious camps along highways. this situation is aggravated by the fact that in recent years the demarcation of new indigenous territories has been stalled. desperation has led the guarani to try to reoccupy ancestral territories that have not yet been approved by the authorities. it is above all in these attempts at reoccupation that they are on a collision course with interests linked to agribusiness and the extraction of raw materials, suffering retaliation from private security and mercenaries. many are murdered, others are sexually abused, evicted, and subjected to other forms of violence. according to various entities, including the indigenous missionary council and the un special envoy for the rights of indigenous peoples, there has been an increase in violence against the guarani in recent years and a regression in the protection of their human rights. according to a report by the indigenous missionary council, 33 indigenous people were killed in mato grosso do sul alone in 2015. in view of this, and i will end with this, this resolution calls on the brazilian authorities to take urgent measures to protect the physical integrity of the guarani-kaiowá, to guarantee their constitutional rights and to complete the pending demarcation processes, which are absolutely fundamental to safeguarding their legitimate interests.
author. - mr president, the first point i want to make is that this motion does not constitute a gesture of hostility towards the government of brazil. it is intended above all to encourage the authorities of this country to put an end to a situation which is shocking to the international community and, i am sure, to brazilian society itself. it is not possible that in a country which has one of the most progressive legal systems in the world in terms of human rights, see article 5 of the brazilian constitution, acts are being committed which recall the worst moments of portuguese and spanish colonialism in latin america. the physical violence against an indigenous community fighting for its ancestral lands, as well as the unspeakable violation of human rights, suggests that we may be facing far more serious crimes, namely ethnic crimes against a people, which the international community condemns in the strongest terms. brazil is a huge country that has enough land for all brazilians. share it with respect for the law.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. the living conditions to which these indigenous peoples have been subjected are unsustainable. the brazilian authorities must take account of the recommendations contained in the resolution under discussion, promoting respect for the most basic human rights and respecting the identity and dignity of the indians within the existing constitutional framework. the constitutional framework must not be changed to prevent economic forces and interests, which dispute the indigenous people's power to demarcate land, from abusing the law to block decisions favorable to the claims of their millennial occupiers. as a large multicultural and multiracial nation, the federative republic of brazil must guarantee indigenous peoples their rights within the framework of the democratic process, while fulfilling its commitments to the millennium development goals and the sustainability targets set out in the paris agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of discovery, the territory which now corresponds to brazil was inhabited by between 2 and 5 million indians. since then, the indigenous population has been drastically reduced in the same proportion in which their rights have been denied, under the pretext of the assimilation of a culture that is not, and never was, theirs and whose only reason is the covetousness of vast territories belonging to these populations. this reality is clearly visible in the state of mato grosso do sul, which leads the country in the number of murders of indians, which occur with impunity in the faces of the brazilian authorities. ladies and gentlemen, at the moment when proposals for amendments to the brazilian constitution are being adopted, which aim to change the rules for the demarcation of indigenous lands and to make it possible to revise already demarcated indigenous lands, the brazilian indian sees his rights as a millennial nation threatened once again. ladies and gentlemen, we must remind the brazilian government of this sad reality and that it should reexamine the proposed amendments to the brazilian constitution, recalling the brazilian ethnologist and defender of the indigenous cause darcy ribeiro who said that "the brazilian nation will never exist, in dignity and shame, if we let the few indians who still survive die".
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on macro-financial assistance to jordan. the proposal is to increase the amount of this assistance by 150 million. it is proposed to grant a total amount of eur 350 million, which should include a timetable for the fulfilment of financial conditions. this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we know well and which we reject: deregulation and liberalisation of various sectors of the economy, attacks on the role of the state and its social functions, privatisations, all under the pretext of the state's compliance with the rules of the 'market economy'. we support the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be deepened, in respect for the sovereign will and choices of each state, free from conditions or impositions of 'reforms', aimed, in essence, at imposing a model based on the total liberalization of the economic life of countries.
‒ jordan is currently facing enormous economic challenges, aggravated by the solidarity response of hosting a very high number of refugees from the syrian conflict. in this regard, it has turned to the eu for a financial aid package. this is a fundamental aid, and the amounts involved - which are far below what is needed - and the conditionality imposed by the european institutions will lead to massive doses of austerity that will hurt the jordanian people. for these reasons, i abstained.
‒ jordan is, because of its geographical situation, one of the countries most directly affected by the crisis in syria. since 2011, the country's economy, mainly based on services and industry, has been affected by the instability in the region. the decline in tourism revenues and foreign direct investment flows, the blockade of trade flows and the repeated disruptions in the supply of natural gas from egypt have hampered the growth of jordan's economy and weighed on its fiscal position. the conflict in syria and iraq prevents jordanian products from continuing to flow to their historic markets. in view of the economic difficulties jordan is facing, the european union must support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is to be commended. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the proposal is to increase the amount of macro-financial assistance to jordan by 150 million, i.e. to grant a total amount of 350 million, which must include a timetable for the fulfilment of financial conditions. this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we reject. we are not in favour of the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be deepened, in respect for the will and sovereign choices of each state, free from conditions or impositions of reforms, which are essentially aimed at imposing a model based on the liberalization of the economic and social life of the countries.
‒ we all recognise the role jordan has played in assisting the refugee crisis (650,000 syrians registered as refugees, but the authorities assure that it is up to 1.4 million) and the need to help its weakened economy. the decline in tourism revenues and foreign direct investment flows, the blockade of trade flows and the repeated disruptions in the supply of natural gas from egypt have hampered the growth of jordan's economy and weighed on its fiscal position. the conflict in syria and iraq prevents jordanian products from continuing to flow to their historic markets. in 2015, the continuation of conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's foreign trade: the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in the first half of 2016, extremely high unemployment affected 14.6% of the active population (33% of young people in the labour force and 23.7% of women in the labour force). the assistance will be 200 million between 2016 and 2017. the s&ds nevertheless believe that more could have been done.
‒ due to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis, and the economic sector has been severely hit by the instability in the region. for this reason, and also because it is the country in the world which, together with lebanon, hosts the largest number of refugees in relation to its population, i believe that the conditions are right for the eu to provide macrofinancial assistance to jordan in a rapid manner in order to alleviate the burden of public debt in jordan and to help implement the reforms necessary for democratic stabilisation and the establishment of a genuine rule of law, respecting human rights. in addition to this macro-financial assistance, the importance of the negotiations on the comprehensive and deep free trade agreement should not be overlooked in order to intensify trade relations between the eu and jordan and to bring mutual benefits to both parties.
‒ the proposal is to increase the amount of macro-financial assistance to jordan by 150 million, i.e. to grant a total amount of 350 million, which 'must include a timetable for the fulfilment of financial conditions'. this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we reject. we are not in favour of the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be deepened, in respect for the will and sovereign choices of each state, free from conditions or impositions of reforms, which are essentially aimed at imposing a model based on the liberalization of the economic and social life of the countries.
‒ the institutions for occupational pension schemes (oppps) play an important role in the long-term financing of the european economy. europe is facing an ageing population in all member states. life expectancy varies across europe, but the trend is generally upwards, with more pensioners living longer and in better health. in view of this reality, countries should consider introducing supplementary second pillar pension schemes. however, such plans should be developed without compromising the importance of social security pension schemes in terms of secure, durable and effective social protection. i support the hayes report because i agree with the need to clarify the rules on the activity and transfers of pension schemes across borders and between member states, with the aim of providing certainty to institutions intending to manage such pension schemes. i support the need to ensure good governance and risk management, provide clear and relevant information to members and beneficiaries and ensure that supervisors have the necessary tools to supervise iorps.
‒ the report states that the directive should ensure that institutions have an appropriate level of freedom to invest, with institutions that run occupational pension schemes being able to invest in shares, multilateral trading facilities, organised trading facilities. the limitation of risk management by quantitative requirements is also assumed and it is therefore essential to ensure an effective governance system. this solution implies that pensions are at the mercy of the suitability of the manager and the performance of the products in which the pension money is invested. in a scenario where the number of defined contribution occupational pension schemes is increasing, this becomes potentially problematic and dangerous. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we do not regard pension funds as a commonplace financial product. we are against the creation of a single pension market and against the creation of pension schemes at european level.
‒ this directive provides for minimum harmonisation and should not prevent member states from maintaining or incorporating other provisions in order to protect members and beneficiaries, provided that those provisions are consistent with the obligations of member states under union law. this directive does not concern issues related to national social and labour law, taxation and contract law, or the adequacy of pension schemes in the member states, beyond the rules on occupational pension schemes as set out in this directive. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the adopted report states that the directive should ensure that institutions have an appropriate level of freedom to invest, with occupational pension scheme institutions being able to invest in shares, multilateral trading facilities, organised trading facilities. the limitation of risk management by quantitative requirements is also assumed and it is therefore essential to ensure an effective governance system. this solution implies that pensions are at the mercy of the suitability of the manager and the performance of the products in which the pension money is invested (this, in a scenario where the number of defined contribution occupational pension plans is increasing, becomes potentially problematic and dangerous). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we do not regard pension funds as a commonplace financial product. we are against the creation of a single pension market and against the creation of pension schemes at european level.
‒ the gradual ageing of european society means that the eu needs to adopt measures providing for an adequate, secure and sustainable level of pensions for its social security systems and facilitating the development of occupational retirement savings. the absence of an up-to-date community regulatory framework has allowed member states to maintain divergent and independent solutions. the proposal, which i voted for, therefore calls for a review of directive 2003/41/ec on the activities and supervision of institutions, the establishment of occupational pension schemes, the need to reduce obstacles to the development of crossborder pension markets and the closure of some existing gaps in the information provided to members and beneficiaries across the eu. the proposal builds on a number of initiatives launched over the past few years, such as the white paper on pensions and the green paper on the long-term financing of the european economy. i think this debate and the existing sustainability proposals are extremely important, especially for the younger generations.
the report, which will be voted on in plenary, states that 'the directive should ensure that institutions have an appropriate level of freedom to invest', with institutions for occupational pension schemes being able to invest in shares, multilateral trading systems, organised trading systems. the limitation of risk management by quantitative requirements is also assumed and it is therefore essential to ensure an effective governance system; this solution implies that pensions are at the mercy of the suitability of the manager and the performance of the products in which the pension money is invested (i.e. in a scenario where the number of defined contribution occupational pension plans is increasing, it becomes potentially problematic and dangerous). the text put to the vote also states that investment rules imposed by the member states must allow the development of individual pension products within a collective system and must not impede the free movement of capital. we do not regard pension funds as a commonplace financial product. we are against the creation of a single pension market and against the creation of pension schemes at european level.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the situation in syria once again highlights the state of affairs in that country after six years of conflict which has already killed more than 400 000 people and left 13 million in need of humanitarian aid. my vote in favour is a sign of support for a text which once again seeks to highlight the atrocities and the very serious human rights violations that occur daily in syria, while at the same time calling on the various parties to resume negotiations that can lead to a genuine truce in this bloody conflict. i would also like to reiterate my support for the european union's humanitarian initiative for aleppo, as stated in this resolution, and call on all parties concerned to allow and help its implementation.
‒ the situation of conflict and violence in the syrian territory is reaching levels of a genuine humanitarian scourge with each passing day, with an estimated 400 000 people already dead and more than 13 million in need of humanitarian aid. despite calls from the eu and the wider international community, fighting and bombing continue and serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are being committed by all parties, including the use of chemical weapons with a particular focus on civilian areas, schools, hospitals and refugee camps. i support the resolution in question because it once again states that we must put an end to the atrocities committed by both assad's forces and armed non-state terrorist groups by stopping the bombing, taking the necessary measures to protect civilians and holding criminals accountable for their acts. i reiterate the need to extend the opcw investigative mechanism to establish responsibility for the use of chemical weapons and to refer the syrian case to the icc. i also call for respect for ethnic and religious minorities, including christians, so that they can practice their faith in freedom and security and live their lives with dignity.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union is calling on the government of the drc to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the drc is brought under control. the resolution goes even further than the european parliament has gone before in the warmongering provocation and escalation of the conflict in syria, provoking forces that are supporting the syrian government against the external aggression that the country is suffering, namely russia, when it advocates the establishment of a no-fly zone over the city of aleppo. remember: the same expedient used in the aggression against libya - with the results that are known today. this means opening the door to sending troops to secure this no-fly zone in a clear confrontation with the syrian army. we must remember the disaster that the imposition of a no-fly zone by nato meant for the libyan people, and the consequences of which this country is still suffering today. only this enormous irresponsibility would be enough to make us reject this resolution altogether. but there are other negative aspects, and many of them, which converge on our strong vote against.
‒ the european union is one of the largest contributors of humanitarian aid to people fleeing historic violence and destruction in syria. the lack of international unity jeopardises the prospects for a negotiated solution to the war in syria. the eu must continue its efforts and play a greater role in mediating a peace agreement in syria. we must deplore everything that is happening in syria and try to find a peaceful solution to this conflict. that is why i am voting in favour.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. it opens the door to an even greater escalation of direct military aggression against the syrian people, making an explicit call for the violation of international law, in particular by the proposed imposition of a no-fly zone over the city of aleppo. examples such as libya confirm this formulation as an instrument that justifies the intervention and external aggression of european powers to a sovereign country, in this case promoting a clear confrontation with the syrian army and the forces that collaborate with it in the fight against terrorism and in the legitimate defense of the territorial integrity of syria. for more than six years, syria and its people have been victims of a systematic act of interference, a cruel war of aggression imposed and promoted by the united states, france, the united kingdom, israel, turkey, saudi arabia, among others, executed by mercenary groups that created, funded and armed, who are responsible for the brutal violation of the rights of the syrian people, of human rights, for the most heinous crimes, for millions of displaced and refugees, for the destruction of this country. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ we have once again expressed our concern about the situation in syria. the fighting continues and has worsened the humanitarian situation. on the initiative of the european socialists and with the support of all the other main groups, parliament adopted today a resolution stressing the need to ensure that all those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity in syria do not go unpunished. we call on all actors involved in this conflict to allow an immediate cessation of hostilities and to resume negotiations, ensuring that humanitarian assistance reaches all people in need in syria.
in writing. six years of conflict, extreme violence and brutality in syria have already caused the deaths of more than 400 000 people, with 13 million currently in need of humanitarian aid. according to 2016 estimates, 8.7 million people are internally displaced within syria and 4.8 million have fled the country. however, the fighting and the bombing continue at an overwhelming rate and the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate day by day. the eu remains deeply concerned about the whole situation and continues its efforts to call for the facilitation of humanitarian aid, emergency supplies and an immediate ceasefire. atrocities and human rights violations must be stopped urgently, and it is therefore imperative that indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population cease and that the perpetrators of these heinous acts be held accountable through appropriate, impartial and uncompromising international criminal justice mechanisms. because it is urgent to resolve this devastating catastrophe and because it is necessary for the eu and its member states to act with firmness towards the objective of ending hostilities and bringing peace to the territory, i voted in favour of this resolution, of which i am one of the proponents.
‒ the situation in syria is unacceptable in every sense and represents a striking example of the inhumanity of eu foreign policy. it is unacceptable for the eu to deny full respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of states such as syria. respect for the multicultural nature of their societies is the only way to prevent the expansion of isil and the perpetuation of the suffering caused to its populations. instead of turning a blind eye to the multiple channels of financing and arming isil, we call on the eu to step up humanitarian aid, invest more effort in the treatment of refugees and promote a peaceful political solution in respect of international law and the integrity of the syrian state and its legitimate government.
‒ the state of relations between the european union and turkey has been deteriorating in recent times due to the extreme positions of its president and, as referred to in this resolution, the lack of political will on the part of the turkish government to stay on the path set for its accession to the european union. this text deserves my vote in favour, because it strongly condemns the repressive measures taken by the turkish government following the coup attempt and calls on the european commission to temporarily freeze the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union until the turkish authorities return to respect for the rule of law and human rights. it is important to remember that this accession process is something different from the diplomatic relations between this country and the european union and that we must continue to be committed to keeping turkey 'anchored' in the european union, and it is also clear to me that the place of a democratic turkey will be within the european project.
in writing. ‒ in march this year, shortly after the eu-turkey statement on the so-called refugee crisis, i warned of the dangers of such an agreement. i have not only expressed reservations about the effectiveness and legality of what we were asking turkey to do, but also about the feasibility of the countermeasures we were offering. i have doubts that the promised billions will be raised and today only a small part of them has actually been given to greece. i have doubted that it would be possible to liberalize visas with that country and today that possibility remains at least as remote as it was then and finally i doubted that it would be prudent to wave the hand of accession. it is now clear that membership will not be possible in the near future. what we have seen in turkey is contrary to the values which are essential for any member of the union. while we cannot ignore the fact that turkey is a natural partner of the union for obvious geostrategic reasons, it is also true that there are principles on which we cannot compromise. i therefore support this resolution and emphasize its main message: suspend the accession negotiations with turkey.
in this resolution, what is not there is immediately apparent, namely the shameful eu-turkey agreement. turkey's role in nato and the conflicts in syria and iraq is not addressed. there is no reference to the situation in cyprus. the situation in turkey is a cause for great concern. the arrest of hdp leaders, communists and other democrats who are fighting in the country deserves denunciation, condemnation and all solidarity with the victims of the repression. however, it cannot ignore the immense cynicism of those who - like the eu, which is negotiating turkey's accession - pretend to have discovered in the aftermath of the failed coup the repressive and authoritarian nature of the policy of erdogan and the akp, thus seeking not only to influence the immediate development of the situation in turkey, but also to cover up their wide-ranging collusion with the turkish authorities and their policy, such as the illegal occupation of the territory of cyprus, the repression of the kurdish population, the restriction of freedoms, rights and fundamental guarantees, the aggression and looting of syria and iraq, promoting and protecting terrorist groups and supporting their bloody murder, or the exploitation of the dramatic situation of millions of refugees and the denial of their most basic rights.
‒ the possible accession of turkey to the european union continues to raise the greatest reservations. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open the ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of the military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: most of turkey is not geographically europe; turkey has an islamic identity that is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries; the eu's future member states will have to make a major effort to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make decisions. all this does not prevent the recognition of the efforts made by turkey in recent years to meet some of the eu's criteria of need, and it even points out the invaluable role of this country within nato. the relevant question will be whether it is not preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential eu partner status, rather than to create false expectations and hopes for accession, which facts and circumstances will hardly allow.
the resolution is deliberately more moderate than many other resolutions voted in the ep. the eu's geostrategic and political interests, notably turkey's involvement in the syrian conflict, its role as a nato member and economic interests in that country, outweigh this containment, while maintaining the stance of interference and meddling. the obvious absence in the text is the reference to the criminal eu-turkey agreement on the humanitarian refugee crisis, which the eu wants to maintain at all costs. of course, there is also no mention of the settlement of the illegal occupation of cyprus. it refers to the temporary freezing of the accession process, coupled with a series of criticisms of the arrests, the persecutions, the repression after the coup. we are attentive and concerned about the situation in turkey, particularly with regard to the brutal oppression and repression of the working classes and the parties, class organizations and other progressive forces on the ground fighting for freedom and democracy. the repression and authoritarianism of the turkish government's policies did not begin with the coup d'état, as the european leaders and this parliament now seem to have cynically discovered, seeking to wash the face of the complicity they have always had with the forces in power.
in the light of the recent developments in the eu, the commission has proposed that the council and the european parliament should adopt a common position on the draft treaty establishing the european community. at least as long as the turkish authorities continue to neglect and undermine democracy and the rule of law. the european parliament also warned the turkish authorities that the reintroduction of the death penalty was incompatible with the continuation of the accession process. this resolution is a clear political message to erdoğan that should not be misinterpreted: we want to strengthen turkey's link with europe, democracy and the rule of law, but we will never give up our values. we hope that the rule of law and human rights will be restored as soon as possible. until then, dialogue will continue, but accession talks should be frozen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of this motion for a resolution which voted to freeze negotiations with turkey with a view to its accession to the european union (eu). it is true that turkey is a friend and an important strategic partner of the eu, but we cannot remain indifferent to the recent events of excessive repression by the turkish government under the state of emergency, which are serious, disproportionate and even violate the constitutional rights of this country and the democratic values on which the eu is based and by which it is governed. i therefore condemn all the repressive measures taken by the erdogan government since the attempted military coup in july. such actions suggest that there is no political will on the part of the current turkish government to maintain the privileged relationship with the eu, and that the government is taking a different path. in any event, the current situation must not fail to undermine the important support for turkish citizens and civil society and does not, of course, prevent a supervenient change of circumstances from creating the necessary conditions for the resumption of negotiations.
‒ the repressive measures taken by the turkish government under the state of emergency are disproportionate and violate the fundamental rights and freedoms protected by the turkish constitution, the democratic values that the european union proclaims. since the coup attempt, the authorities have detained 10 members of the grand national assembly of turkey and about 150 journalists (the highest number of such detentions worldwide). 2386 judges and prosecutors and another 40 000 people were detained, of whom more than 31 000 remain in detention. the commission's 2016 report on turkey indicates that 129 000 civil servants remain suspended (66 000) or have been dismissed (63 000), most of them without any charges to date. this situation is of course to be condemned, but it does not prevent us from considering the need for the eu to look within its borders, where austerity policies daily violate the most basic social and human rights. at the same time as europe's millionaires are growing, millions of people are living without work, without income and often without a roof over their heads. this is the sad reality.
‒ domestic and other gender-based violence unfortunately remains a very present reality for too many women, including in europe, where about one in 20 women has been a victim of rape. despite gender equality being a core value of european societies, millions of women continue to be victims. the fight against this scourge will not be instantaneous, nor will it be the result of an isolated action. on the contrary, only consistent work at various levels will produce results. that is why adhering to the istanbul convention is essential. on the one hand, to ensure at least a minimum level of protection throughout the european continent, and on the other hand, to ensure that the mobility of european women does not result in less protection or double victimization. i therefore support this resolution.
‒ violence against women remains a widespread reality and in dramatic numbers in the eu. the resolution recommends the eu's early accession to the istanbul convention as an important instrument in combating and preventing violence against women. it also called on the member states to ensure its proper implementation and to allocate adequate financial and human resources to preventing and combating violence against women and to protecting victims. it is not surprising that this resolution does not establish any link between the right-wing policies, the attacks on social and labour rights or the 'austerity' policies imposed by the eu, and the increase in inequalities, poverty and social exclusion, high levels of unemployment, job insecurity and how these phenomena particularly affect women and contribute to the increase in sexual and domestic violence, or the increase in prostitution and human trafficking networks. this means that the mere signing of a convention will not translate into results per se unless it is also accompanied by social policies at other levels of intervention, in particular concrete policies to combat poverty and social exclusion. despite these reservations, we voted in favour.
‒ gender equality is a core value of the eu, enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, which the eu has committed itself to mainstreaming in all its activities. gender equality is a key strategic objective for achieving the overall europe 2020 targets of growth, jobs and social inclusion. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women. i therefore support the eu's accession to the convention. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ violence against women remains a widespread reality and in dramatic numbers in the eu. the resolution recommends the eu's early accession to the istanbul convention as an important instrument in combating and preventing violence against women. it also called on the member states to ensure its proper implementation and to allocate adequate financial and human resources to preventing and combating violence against women and to protecting victims. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids, including through the fight against aids, hiv/aids and aids-related diseases. this means that the mere signing of a convention will not translate into results per se unless it is also accompanied by social policies at other levels of intervention, in particular concrete policies to combat poverty and social exclusion. we voted in favour, however.
‒ equality between women and men is a fundamental value of the eu and its member states. however, the reality does not always reflect this commitment. while the european parliament has played an important role in raising awareness of equality between women and men and in empowering and empowering women, it is clearly the member states that have prevented the adoption of more ambitious targets in terms of human rights legislation. the myth of 'progressive equality' is still deeply rooted in europe and prevents equality from becoming an effective objective in the eu. whether certain measures have been taken in one area or another, the absence of a comprehensive strategy shows that gender equality is not taken sufficiently seriously. stereotypes and discrimination persist in all spheres of society. the signing and ratification of the istanbul convention is a necessary, though not sufficient, measure to try to counteract this state of affairs and to raise awareness of the need to change mentalities. we need a legally binding instrument to prevent and end violence against women. violence against women cannot remain invisible and devalued. the lack of harmonized laws and policies has significant consequences on women's resilience and survival.
‒ the european commission has announced a campaign to combat violence against women for 2017. one in three women has been a victim of gender-based violence in her lifetime. while 96% of europeans are aware that domestic violence is unacceptable, 27% still believe that sex without consent can be justified in certain circumstances, according to a recent eurobarometer survey. this motion for a resolution is in line with article 2 of the tfeu and the charter of fundamental rights, which commit the eu to guaranteeing, promoting and intervening for gender equality, and underlines the importance of the eu's accession to the istanbul convention with a view to the adoption of a coherent european legal framework on preventing and combating gender-based violence. the resolution also seeks to ensure better monitoring, interpretation and implementation of eu legislation, programmes and funds relevant to the convention by strengthening accountability at international level. at the same time, it is important for the eu to develop a strategy to combat violence against women and to be an integral part of a comprehensive plan to combat gender inequalities.
in writing. ‒ gender equality and the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental rights of the eu. the resolution points to relevant facts, it does not deliberately ignore the social and political conditions in which they occur. and you can see why: because the violation of rights increases with austerity policies, with the dismantling of the social functions of the state and with the widening of inequality and poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention because i agree with the need for urgent action by the eu to combat violence against women. i would stress that the istanbul convention is the first legally binding instrument in europe on this type of violence and, in terms of scope, it is the most comprehensive international treaty on combating violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. therefore, under the convention, states are obliged to adopt legislation towards a zero tolerance for violence against women. gender-based violence is no longer a private matter, and states will be obliged to prevent violence, protect victims and punish perpetrators.
‒ the ombudsman plays a key role, under the treaties, in upholding the principles of good administration in the european institutions. in addition, having dealt with 48 840 complaints between 2005 and 2015, he is a familiar figure to european citizens (83% are aware that they can turn to the ombudsman - eurobarometer october 2015). it is therefore essential to preserve the independence of this figure in order to maintain the effectiveness of its decisions or recommendations. i welcome the 90% compliance rate with the ombudsman's decisions and recommendations in 2015 and the good diligence in dealing with all requests, which was however lower than in the previous year, which worries me. i note that information and access to documents is the main subject of the requests. i believe that this access should be as wide as possible, in safe conditions. i believe that these reports from parliament should assess the ombudsman's work and not seek to use it as a pretext for political attacks. i shall therefore refrain from referring to specific media cases which, in my view, do not fall within the scope of this report. this makes the document a tool and distracts it from its purpose. i therefore abstain on this report.
‒ the report covers the work carried out by the eu ombudsman in 2015. welcomes the ombudsman's efforts to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations. it emphasises the need for transparency in the eu decision-making process and supports the investigation of informal negotiations between the three main eu institutions (the 'trilogues'). regrets that the european commission has only provided the committee of inquiry with partial documentation on the so-called 'vw scandal'. it supports the ombudsman's determination to increase the transparency of the ecb's operation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. it supports the ombudsman's efforts to increase the transparency of lobbying activities. welcomes the investigations into 'revolving door' cases in the european commission. it takes a critical view of the fact that former european commission president josé manuel barroso has been appointed as a consultant and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international. we recognise the ombudsman's work, which includes some dimensions that we value. however, the very content of the report reveals its character as a mere 'democratic adornment' of a profoundly undemocratic process, in the way it affects the daily lives of millions of citizens, of the member states and of their sovereign institutions, by imposing policies on them which are contrary to their interests.
‒ on 3 may 2016, the european ombudsman, emily oreilly, presented her annual report for 2015 to martin schulz, president of the european parliament. the ombudsman helps individuals, businesses and associations facing problems of maladministration in an eu institution. in addition to supporting citizens, the european ombudsman serves the public interest by helping the eu institutions to improve the quality of the services they provide. in addition to investigating complaints, the ombudsman may also open inquiries on his own initiative. in view of the important role played by the european ombudsman, i voted in favour.
‒ the report welcomes a number of points on which we disagree. for us, there is no transparency in the ttip negotiations, let alone in the ecb. while acknowledging positive aspects such as the condemnation of promiscuity between the european commission and the major economic groups, particularly at the level of the so-called revolving doors, we think that the text continues to ignore the enormous democratic deficit of the whole process of integration of this eu.
in writing. ‒ in her presentation on the 2015 annual report, the european ombudsman - emily o'reilly - highlighted the mission and main functions of this european body at the service of citizens, listing the data set on complaints lodged, advice provided, inquiries opened and support for improving the quality of services provided by the european institutions. during the debate in the plenary, some proposals for regulations on the reporting of irregularities and for greater transparency of the ecb and the eurogroup as well as of interest groups were put forward, with which i agree. the possible need to reform the code of conduct for commissioners was also discussed. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its content.
‒ the report welcomes a number of points on which we disagree. for us, there is no transparency in the ttip negotiations, let alone in the ecb. while acknowledging positive aspects such as the condemnation of promiscuity between the european commission and the major economic groups, particularly at the level of the so-called revolving doors, we think that the text continues to ignore the enormous democratic deficit of the whole process of integration of this eu.
‒ this own-initiative report is a response by the european parliament to the action plan on vat published by the european commission in april this year. it provides for the harmonization of rates and more rigid lists of products subject to reduced rates, a position with which we disagree. it also provides for a new system of collection in international transactions with tax payable at the place of purchase. the report considers that the goods and services to which reduced rates may be applied should be reduced. it considers that for some of the goods and services for which reduced rates may be applied, this should be fixed jointly at eu level. for our part, we believe that the minimum and reduced rates of vat play a positive, redistributive role in a tax which is highly regressive and, for that reason, we do not accept that the way in which the minimum and reduced rates of vat are defined should be changed for the worse in the name of reducing complexity and the consequent obstacles to competition and the single market.
the report proposes to change the current transitional vat regime in the european union to a definitive regime based on the principle of taxation in the country of origin of the supply of goods and services. in 2014, vat revenue reached almost eur 1 trillion, corresponding to 7% of eu gdp, constituting an important financial source of own resources for the eu. unfortunately, the current vat system has been subject to tax fraud and evasion from the outset. the commission estimates that the vat gap due to fraud amounts to eur 170 billion annually, of which eur 50 billion is due to crossborder fraud. in this connection, there is an urgent need for reform of this system, simplification of bureaucratic and administrative systems and consequent reduction of regulatory costs, as well as greater coordination between member states in the application and monitoring of the system. despite some shortcomings, such as the assessment of the social impact of these measures, this report presents some important steps towards the implementation of the vat reform and the fight against fraud. i abstained.
‒ the commission communication of 7 april 2016 on a vat action plan put an end to the long delay in moving towards a single vat area in the eu, pointing out that the time to decide has come. the commission has announced that it will present a legislative proposal on a definitive vat system, which will be based on the principle that goods and services are taxed in the country of destination. with this proposal the commission is definitively departing from the principle of taxation in the country of origin origin originally requested, which is apparently not feasible due to a number of problems and distortions of competition. in concrete terms, this means that the tax provision under which the supplier of goods charges vat to the customer will extend to cross-border trade, thus significantly reducing the opportunities for vat fraud. i agree with the future amendments proposed by the commission, hence my vote in favour.
‒ this own-initiative report is a response by the european parliament to the action plan on vat published by the commission in april this year. it provides for the harmonization of rates and more rigid listing of products subject to reduced rates. it also provides for a new system of collection in international transactions with tax payable at the place of purchase. it also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. we believe that the minimum and reduced rates of vat play a redistributive role in a tax which is highly regressive and therefore we do not accept that the way in which the minimum and reduced rates of vat are defined should be changed for the worse in the name of reducing complexity and the consequent obstacles to competition and the single market.
in writing. the commission's communication on a vat action plan, published in april this year, suggests new proposals and guidelines towards a single vat area in the eu. this tax is an important source of revenue for the union as a whole, corresponding to 7% of gdp. however, the current system is unreliable and highly susceptible to fraud. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that this proposal is insufficient and does not represent a fundamental reform, since this would require the introduction of a system of self-assessment throughout europe and in all trade between companies. it is a simpler, more unified and more durable system with less revenue loss and less fraud. since this is already the case in other member states, it is hard to understand why the commission should not be more demanding and make a bolder proposal to apply this system uniformly to all the member states. in view of the above and in agreement with the rapporteur's views, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ this own-initiative report is a response by the european parliament to the action plan on vat published by the ec in april this year. it provides for the harmonization of rates and more rigid listing of products subject to reduced rates. it also provides for a new system of collection in international transactions with tax payable at the place of purchase. it also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. we believe that the minimum and reduced rates of vat play a redistributive role in a tax which is highly regressive and therefore we do not accept that the way in which the minimum and reduced rates of vat are defined should be changed for the worse in the name of reducing complexity and the consequent obstacles to competition and the single market.
‒ wildlife trafficking is an international organised crime worth an estimated €20 billion a year, making it one of the most lucrative forms of organised cross-border crime in the world. wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation. i welcome the action plan against wildlife trafficking, which stresses the need for coordinated action to address the causes of wildlife trafficking, to effectively implement and enforce the rules in force, and for the implementation of the plan, adequate human and financial resources in the community budget and in national budgets are needed. it is also necessary to provide assistance, guidance and training to the authorities in the countries of origin, transit and destination with regard to investigation, enforcement and judicial proceedings at local, regional and national level. i therefore support this report.
‒ wildlife crime, such as poaching, illegal trade in species or illegal transit of wildlife products and derivatives, has become a multi-billion euro criminal industry dominated by organised crime groups. the risk of detection is low and the financial impact is high, attracting criminal gangs to exploit illegally captured, moved and traded wildlife to fund their criminal activity. the eu is a major destination for illegal wildlife products, as well as a transit point and often source for wildlife trafficking, especially between africa, asia and latin america, and therefore has responsibilities in combating this phenomenon. the eu action plan presented by the commission lists a number of measures to be taken by the eu institutions or by the member states. the main aim of the measures is to improve cooperation between all actors, to make more effective use of existing instruments and policies and to strengthen synergies between them, so that the fight against wildlife trafficking can be tackled more effectively across the eu and globally. we voted in favour.
‒ the biggest cause of the decline in endangered species is illegal hunting. the trophies are usually an expression of legal and selective hunting, which, being managed by the official authorities of the countries, contributes to the financing of the conservation of species and the protection of nature. the european union must be ruthless in the fight against illegal hunting.
‒ wildlife crime, such as poaching, illegal trade in species or illegal transit of wildlife products and derivatives, has become a multi-billion euro criminal industry dominated by organised crime groups. the risk of detection is low and the financial impact is high, attracting criminal gangs to exploit illegally captured, moved and traded wildlife to fund their criminal activity. the eu is a major destination for illegal wildlife products, as well as a transit point and often source for wildlife trafficking, especially between africa, asia and latin america, and therefore has responsibilities in combating this phenomenon. the eu action plan presented by the commission lists a number of measures to be taken by the eu institutions or by the member states. the main aim of the measures is to improve cooperation between all actors, to make more effective use of existing instruments and policies and to strengthen synergies between them, so that the fight against wildlife trafficking can be tackled more effectively across the eu and globally. we voted in favour.
‒ the action plan is part of the eu's response to the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and in particular sustainable development goal 15, which calls for urgent action to end poaching and trafficking of protected species, and to address the demand for and supply of illegal wildlife products. the wildlife trade has become a sector dominated by organized criminal groups, involving billions of dollars. the low risk of discovery and high financial return attract criminal groups to illegally exploit wildlife caught and harvested from the wild to fund their criminal activities. throughout the world, non-state armed groups, terrorist groups and others are increasingly involved in environmental crime, taking advantage of the exploitation of natural resources, which are easier to use than the income from other forms of exploitation, such as illicit drug trafficking, cigarettes or migrants. we therefore call for immediate measures to better protect endangered animals and plants by immediately prohibiting their trade and applying appropriate sanctions.
‒ wildlife trafficking is increasingly a serious threat to the survival of multiple species of fauna and flora, and is also an attack on the values of the rule of law, global governance, the preservation of global ecosystems and the well-being of local communities. the wildlife trade has become a multi-million dollar business, dominated by organized criminal groups who exploit, in a vile and totally illegal way, wildlife that is captured and removed from its natural habitat for huge profits. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, in which the eu is playing an important role in the fight against wildlife crime, which has a point of transit, destination and often source of wildlife trafficking on the european continent. this action plan represents a positive point in this fight, as it also integrates the 2030 agenda for sustainable development of the united nations, in particular with regard to the pillar of poaching and trafficking and trade in protected species. i consider the set of priorities in the action plan to be generally positive and therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ wildlife trafficking poses a serious and growing threat not only to the survival of countless species of flora and fauna, but also to the rule of law, human rights, global governance, the well-being of local communities and, above all, the survival of the world's ecosystems. the wildlife trade has become a sector dominated by organized criminal groups, involving billions of dollars. the low risk of discovery and high financial return attract criminal groups to illegally exploit wildlife caught and harvested from the wild to fund their criminal activities. the european union and the rich countries are the main culprits of these crimes, as they benefit from the chaos created by imperialism on the african continent, use the tax havens created by the big financial centres and are the final destination of illicitly obtained goods, whether in the form of furs, ivory or other derivatives. reasons enough not to whistle aside and act as soon as possible in a certain way.
in the report, the commission proposes to set up a european network of national wildlife management centres, which will be responsible for the management of the eu's wildlife resources. i welcome the commission's action plan against wildlife trafficking, which stresses the need for coordinated action to address the causes of wildlife trafficking, to effectively implement and enforce existing rules, and to strengthen overall cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. i would stress the call to the european institutions and agencies to recognise that wildlife crime is a serious and growing threat and to give the utmost political urgency to tackling it. only through a comprehensive and coordinated approach in policy areas such as trade, development, foreign policy, transport and tourism, justice and home affairs can we preserve biodiversity for future generations.
in writing. ‒ all companies play a crucial role in the transport of passengers and goods. thanks to a more specific knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and innovation capacity, small businesses improve individual passenger transport. small transport companies are therefore inherent in european mobility. new technologies are driving the modernisation of the mobility economy. these platforms, particularly those linked to the sharing economy, are introducing a radical change in the transport landscape by optimising the impact of supply and demand at the same time. in the face of the arrival of new operators, legal uncertainty regarding the definition of transport service providers prevents the creation of fair competition and hampers many ambitions of small companies. i support the need to accelerate efforts to complete the single european transport area by ending disparities in the application of the law. we should encourage convergence between the traditional and the platform economies and their collaborative economy models in order to foster innovation, consumer protection and fair competition. i therefore support this report, which will help to improve urban mobility in the future, which will be totally low-carbon.
‒ this report aims to focus on the need to boost the transport market at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a special focus on companies in the so-called collaborative economy. in fact, it is intended to whitewash the ongoing process of deregulation of the sector and to pave the way for the multinationals that aspire to dominate it. the report diagnoses the reality of the sector, with references to the existence of monopolies (which would not be good for its development), the great flexibility brought by digitisation, in contrast to the over-regulation, protectionism and corporatism that put the internal market in question. the report welcomes the emergence of new models of the collaborative economy, which the eu should support (considering the opportunities opened up by the efsi and taking into account that the majority of those operating in the internal market are american), criticizing the fragmented response of the member states to the growth of these models, which would be inconsistent with the potential and benefits of the sector and contrary to consumer expectations. the report also advocates flexible working patterns, which would be beneficial for workers. the report conceals the lack of support for public transport policies and public mobility strategies. their purpose is different: to promote the ubers of this life. we voted against it.
‒ in the absence of relevant statistical data, the reality of small transport enterprises in europe is difficult to assess. while their importance varies from one mode to another (road, inland waterway and maritime transport are heavily targeted, rail and air transport somewhat less), there is no precise way of knowing their number, their share of employment or their share of the wealth created within the union. small transport companies play a key role in the smooth functioning of mobility in europe, but often face difficulties in accessing or remaining in the market, in particular due to the existence of monopolies in this market. it is time we did something to change this situation and help these companies to develop more appropriately and more effectively. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report aims to focus on the need to boost the transport market at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a special focus on companies in the so-called collaborative economy. in fact, it is intended to whitewash the ongoing process of deregulation of the sector and to pave the way for the multinationals that aspire to dominate it. the report diagnoses the reality of the sector, with references to the existence of monopolies (which would not be good for its development), the great flexibility brought by digitisation, in contrast to the over-regulation, protectionism and corporatism that put the internal market in question. the report welcomes the emergence of new models of the collaborative economy, which the eu should support (considering the opportunities opened up by the efsi and taking into account that the majority of those operating in the internal market are american), criticizing the fragmented response of the member states to the growth of these models, which would be inconsistent with the potential and benefits of the sector and contrary to consumer expectations. the report also advocates flexible working patterns, which would be beneficial for workers. the report conceals the lack of support for public transport policies and public mobility strategies. their purpose is different: to promote the ubers of this life. we voted against it.
‒ it is important that we look at the challenges and opportunities facing small businesses in the transport sector, particularly in the context of a collaborative economy and new business models, especially in the context of smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups. we also need to be mindful of the digital economy and its influence on changing the way small transport companies operate.
‒ this initiative report focuses on new opportunities for small and medium-sized transport enterprises, including collaborative business models. stresses that small transport companies are indeed essential for a strong, dynamic and economically viable digital economy, and that there must be collaborative business models that create new business opportunities for such companies, which are often confronted with legal and bureaucratic complexity as well as unfair competition created by protectionist national mechanisms, which generate legal uncertainty; the new collaborative business models should therefore be geared towards technological innovation, based on greater legislative and procedural de-bureaucratization, which provides more fairness, greater balance and is capable of generating greater competitiveness and efficiency for small transport companies, so that they too can promote greater interconnection between consumers and producers and thus help the process of economic, social and territorial cohesion of the regions. as regards the digital platforms that have revolutionised the transport sector, i agree that the logic should be to open up to innovation and fair competition, in a spirit of cooperation and harmonisation of the regulation of these innovative segments with the traditional sectors.
‒ digitalisation and the services of the so-called collaborative economy have interesting benefits from the user's point of view that cannot be ignored. what the report omits, however, is the policy of privatisation of transport services and the depletion of public transport services, which reduces the quality of service to users, deregulates labour relations and removes responsibility from policy makers for mobility strategies - increasingly linked to the market and to an on-demand, individualised logic. because this report conceals the lack of support for public transport policies and public mobility strategies and because it focuses on direct competition between so-called collaborative companies outside the eu and those that may be set up in the eu (forgetting the contradictions that, for example, uber promotes from the point of view of taxation or the application of labour legislation), not in its regulation, we cannot support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the riquet report for agreeing to a coherent european approach to supporting the emergence of new business models for small transport companies. i would stress the call on the commission to take into account the difficulty of penetration of new collaborative business models in rural and non-urban environments when drawing up guidelines on this matter. i also stress that the opportunities arising from the development of connected and self-piloted vehicles (cars, ships, drones, platooning) should lead the commission to present a roadmap on connected and automated vehicles and to analyse the potential effects that this technology may have on the european transport sector, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises.
‒ the eu has an important role to play in the democratization effort of belarus, a country of key geostrategic importance. i am against the death penalty under any circumstances, and i cannot accept that it has been carried out four times this year alone. i support the call for belarus to join the international moratorium, but i am in principle in favour of its abolition. i share the concern about the transparency of electoral acts, considering the difficulties of the 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections. i believe that a thorough electoral reform must be undertaken to facilitate the formation of political parties and to promote citizen participation. the eu cannot accept political imprisonment. i am in favour of the immediate restoration of all civil rights to released political prisoners and a comprehensive reform of the administrative and criminal codes which preserves freedom of expression and of the press. i am concerned about the construction of a nuclear power station in ostrovets, near lithuania and poland. i believe that any decision on visa facilitation must take account of the respect for fundamental rights by the belarusian authorities. i support the motion for a resolution because it takes all these aspects into account.
in writing. - this resolution continues a line of external interference and interference with the political and social situation in belarus, which we consider unacceptable. the resolution addresses the 'approach' of belarus to the eu, which led to the lifting of some of the previously applied sanctions, in a process that imposed changes, which the resolution says were made 'reluctantly'. the electoral process in belarus is criticized, while other electoral processes, such as georgia's, are praised, all depending on the interests that the winners are (or are not) available to serve. two weights, two measures. the resolution develops the eu's view of the situation in ukraine. it takes into account what the belarusian people want or desire. it defends interference in the internal situation in belarus by supporting 'civil society organisations'. it criticises belarus' options in the field of energy policy. whatever our opinion or position on the belarusian government, whether it be for reservations or for reasons of distance, the line of interference which this resolution develops is unacceptable. it is up to each people to define the political, economic and social system that best meets their interests and aspirations. it is not for the eu to make these decisions. we voted against it.
‒ the belarusian authorities should resume without delay work on a thorough reform of the electoral system as part of the broader process of democratisation, in cooperation with international partners. belarus shall ensure, in all circumstances, respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus. the eu is committed to working in the interests of the belarusian people, supporting their aspirations and initiatives for democracy and contributing to a stable, democratic and prosperous future for the country. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this resolution continues a policy of external interference and interference with the political and social situation in belarus with a view to its internal change, in line with the interests of the european union. despite identifying what they identify as belarus's rapprochement with the eu, the resolution proceeds with a barrage of considerations, recommendations and demands that are absolutely unacceptable in the logic of institutional relations with a sovereign state and that violate international law. he calls for reforms to the belarusian electoral system and talks about democratization of the country. it considers the judicial system and the principles of the rule of law in that country. it promotes external support for so-called independent organizations and information sources, which of course are in direct confrontation with the belarusian government. it presents criticisms of the country's development model aimed at its conditioning. regardless of the economic, social and political development model of that country, we consider it unacceptable that the eu should always be in the lead in relation to third countries, daring to lecture and directly interfere where it should not, and thus destabilising states. it is up to each people, within the framework of its supreme sovereignty, to decide on the directions and paths of development of its country. we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament expressed its concern about the shortcomings identified by independent international observers during the 2015 presidential elections and the 2016 legislative elections. he acknowledged that efforts had been made to improve the situation, but that these had not been sufficient. the belarusian authorities should resume without delay work on a thorough reform of the electoral system as part of the broader process of democratisation, in cooperation with international partners. we also urge the belarusian authorities to ensure respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and the international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus.
‒ belarus has made efforts to deepen and improve its relations with the west, although some problems remain in its legal framework, notably with regard to political rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu has lifted some restrictions on belarus as a goodwill gesture to encourage the country to improve its human rights and democratic principles. cooperation between the two, however, needs to be strengthened in a number of areas. in addition to the interest in ensuring the overall reform and democratisation of the belarusian system, together with international partners, the eu also aims to promote the rehabilitation of released political prisoners, abolish the death penalty in the only country in europe still applying it, and monitor the construction of the ostrovets nuclear power plant through international supervision to ensure compliance with international nuclear and environmental safety requirements and standards. i believe that these efforts must take into account the interests of the belarusian people, support their aspirations and initiatives for democracy and contribute to a stable, democratic and prosperous future for the country. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
‒ according to the data in the united nations report, belarus, a socialist country that was part of the former soviet union, has been raising its quality of life. despite the economic sanctions of the european union and the oppression imposed by the eu-nato member states, this country, which has refused to apply the imf's hard-line recipes and maintains a close relationship with russia, and which is therefore labeled as 'non-democratic', unlike the other baltic republics, maintains a high level of public social coverage, and has decided not to break with its socialist past. that said, we welcome all measures aimed at improving relations between the eu and belarus and believe that the lifting of sanctions must lead to their complete annulment, in respect for the sovereignty of those countries and their right to decide their future free from any external pressure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me say a word to the commissioner. you did a great job again! we have to say thank you for your commitment, thank you for your competence, for the quality you have shown. you've set the bar so high that anyone who comes to take your briefcase will have a hard time. we, however, will be here to help. it was largely thanks to you and your efforts, your proposals and, in particular, the draft budget, but also to letter of amendment no 1 and the negotiations, that we have achieved this agreement. i would also like to congratulate the presidency of the council on its perseverance and also on its competence, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs geier and tarand for the commitment we have reached here. the budget's priority is clear: it is youth. that is why we are strengthening erasmus+, the youth employment initiative, but youth also needs a growing economy and hence the strengthening of the european union's competitiveness in programmes such as research and innovation and also, in addition to strengthening erasmus+, strengthening cosme for small and mediumsized enterprises. in addition, this budget, which we regard as positive because it also responds to security in the european union and is in solidarity with refugees, now needs a second part to make it perfect: the commission's proposal is to be linked to the revision of the multiannual financial framework. the 500 million euros we are giving to youth in this budget should have consequences for the revision of the multiannual financial framework. the payments that are required in the budget have to have consequences in terms of that review and we need flexibility. i therefore call on the council to make a real review of the multiannual financial framework so that we can help the council itself to make and implement the commitments it has made to the citizens of the european union.
mr president, the institutions of the european union must be credible. to be credible, they must comply with citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises, young people, researchers, the regions and local authorities. we want to comply and help the council to comply, but to comply we cannot make reallocations. what is a reassignment? it's a cut of an assumed priority. and we, for new priorities, for new policies, have to have exceptional resources. it is clear that the revision of the multiannual financial framework is an imperative which requires the institutions to come together in order not to lose credibility. the council makes many proclamations, but it has to be consistent afterwards with the financial resources to follow up on these proclamations. we cannot accept that we do not move from speeches to deeds. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will take a decision on the matter. 80% of the eu budget goes to the member states. we have an amending budget of eur 7.3 billion, which is being paid back. this shows a bad implementation of community funds. but then we have to pay back that money, the member states have to pay back that money. what does that mean? that we're going to need flexibility. flexibility in the council's own interest, flexibility in the regions' interest. we want something very simple: that the amounts in the budget be used and that no euro in the budget be wasted. i think this is something that's easy to understand. i think that this should be shared by all, and that is why we are on the right track, the proposal on the table can be improved, and it must be improved in the interests of the institutions, in the interests of the council itself, right from the start. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. eu regulations have to be complied with. the acquis communautaire must be respected. for this purpose, we have the european commission, which obliges, or should oblige, and other institutions, to comply with the treaties. then there is the principle of subsidiarity, and the member states must respect the whole of this acquis, they must respect community regulations and then they must also be free to comply with their programmes, the partnership agreements, whatever the member state.
madam president, this agreement on data protection in the framework of the fight against crime and terrorism is intended to restore confidence in the transatlantic recovery that was affected by what snowden revealed about the cia and nsa's mass surveillance program in 2013. the agreement ensures european standards of protection and security of data transferred to the united states, although it only applies to nationals of european union countries, questionably discriminating against resident non-nationals. yet, with the election of trump, this set of guarantees, which can and should be extended to everyone in the european union, is more important than ever. it's up to the trump administration to enforce or tear up this agreement. it is therefore imperative and urgent that parliament gives its consent and prepares to accompany its implementation if the united states respects it. i thank jan philipp albrecht for his leadership in this crucial legislation on personal data protection.
the s&d group welcomes the fact that the european commission has taken the initiative to launch a new initiative on the internet, the internet governance agreement, which will be implemented by the s&d group on behalf of the s&d group. in the conclusions of that forum, emphasis was placed on the commitment of the united states government to ensure the transfer of iana functions to icann through a transparent process, monitored and verified by the global user community. it happened. in october 2016, the transfer process was completed. a very important step has been taken to ensure an open and participatory model of internet governance. the 2016 global forum, to be held in guadalajara, mexico, from 6 to 8 december, under the banner of inclusion and sustainable growth, will now consolidate the model of governance with evidence, founded on democratic values and based on networks of user forums structured at national, regional and global levels. it is essential to ensure that, with the new digital revolution and new technological platforms, the internet remains an open, non-interference, technology-neutral network capable of reconciling the market approach with the social dimensions of inclusion, universal access and the generalisation of public services. the european union has been a key partner in affirming an open and pluralist vision of the dissemination of the internet. this vision, coupled with successful global partnerships, made a difference at key moments in the decision when the heralds of internet control tried to assert their perspective and failed. this european perspective, which has won the global battle, must now also prevail in the implementation of the digital agenda and the digital single market. the choice of an open internet, with universal access, inclusive and at the service of citizens, also shapes and motivates the wifi for europe initiative for which i am rapporteur. this initiative affirms the democratic and participatory model of facilitating access to the internet by the various communities and territories, and can and should have a seminal effect, with principles of action that should be encouraged worldwide and included in the union's external cooperation directives.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner king, on 16 november last it was 21 years since the united nations declaration on tolerance, but let us be frank, there are still many obstacles to a fully tolerant europe. in 2015, one third of europeans said they would not feel comfortable if their son or daughter had a muslim partner. just over a fifth thought that the lgbt community should not have the same rights as heterosexual people. a fifth of europeans also felt uncomfortable working with a person of roma origin. european women still earn on average 30% less than men, and many find this acceptable. all these facts cannot leave us indifferent, especially at a time of such delicate circumstances, when populism is emerging all over the place. parliament must continue its work in the various fields of combating intolerance. especially at a time when populist political discourses sow hatred and preach violence, we must reaffirm and make felt that tolerance and non-discrimination have been fundamental values of the european union since its foundation, both for the member states and in the union's external action. this is clear in the treaties, in the charter of fundamental rights and is reflected in a great deal of community legislation.
in writing. there is a lot of talk about racism, xenophobia, homophobia, sexism and other forms of intolerance. but those who speak with hypocritical crocodile tears are often the main ones responsible for the resurgence of these issues in europe. in a not innocent way, racism, xenophobia and intolerance are mixed with religion, terrorism and fanaticism, as if social issues, unemployment and exploitation were not at the root of all these phenomena. hence our fight for a different europe. the other europe of the workers and peoples will be born of their struggle and of the free and sovereign will of the peoples. it will defeat racism, xenophobia and reactionary theories and will affirm friendship between peoples. the other europe will be the more alive and just the stronger the assertion of the right to sovereign development and social progress, the more united the more equal its sovereign states are.
mr president, colleagues must have seen a horrendous leaflet that has been dropped in aleppo, saying that people should run away or be bombed because the world has forgotten them. i think we should send a clear message that we have not forgotten the people of aleppo. i ask you to sign, before the end of today, this letter urging eu leaders to demand at the un general assembly that a special prosecutor be appointed to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity in syria and specifically in aleppo. (applause)
in writing. ‒ this report aims at amending article 136 of the union customs code, which entered into force on 1 may 2016. the possibility of requiring the presentation of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the eu by sea or air is not currently enshrined. the customs authorities thus face difficulties in carrying out their supervisory activity in respect of these goods, since they cannot control them. in order to ensure equal treatment of goods and the effective application of the union customs code, it is necessary to amend the wording of that article. i voted yes.
in the absence of a clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities, customs authorities find their customs supervision difficult in practice, as they will not be able to: ensure the correct application of import duties and other charges, ensure the correct application of non-tax measures such as health checks and identify the risks of goods arriving at their ports or airports. the proposal to amend article 136 is intended to fill this gap and thus ensure equal treatment for goods and restore the legal basis previously established by the old customs code, hence my favourable opinion.
in writing. the entry into force on 1 may 2016 of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 laying down the union customs code has exposed certain clear loopholes in its drafting. the current article 136 of the treaty does not provide the competent authorities of the member states with a legal basis for the application of the lodging of the entry summary declaration, the notification of the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft, the forwarding and presentation of goods to customs after unloading or transhipment, the waiting period for authorisation before unloading or transhipment of goods and the provisions governing temporary storage. the provisions of this article shall apply to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union, travelling between two points in that territory by sea or air, and if the transport has been carried out by a direct route without a stop outside the customs territory of the union. the proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill this gap and ensure equal treatment for goods and to restore the legal basis previously established by the old customs code.
‒ article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 on intra-union air and sea services has been amended, which provides that a set of articles is not applicable to non-eu goods or to eu goods if they have temporarily left the customs territory of the eu, travelling between two points in that territory by sea or air, and if the transport has been made by a direct route, without a stop outside the customs territory of the eu. the current article 136 does not provide the competent authorities of the member states with a legal basis for applying a set of provisions, and there is no clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities. the problem is that the customs authorities are limited in their supervisory powers. the proposal to amend the existing regulation aims to ensure equal treatment for goods and to restore the legal basis previously established in the old customs code.
‒ this report concerns the need to amend article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code, given the existence of content gaps which demonstrate the absence of a clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities. this makes it difficult for customs to supervise, in particular, the correct application of import duties, non-tax measures such as health checks and the identification of risks of goods arriving at their ports or airports. as this is a change in the legal basis of the regulatory framework, which will give greater legal certainty and security to the competent authorities of the member states in the application and enforcement of the regulations in customs matters, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the issue is the amendment of article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013, which concerns intra-union air and maritime services and provides that a number of articles do not apply to non-eu goods or to eu goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the eu, if they have temporarily left the customs territory of the union, moving between two points in that territory by sea or air, and if the transport has been made by a direct route, without a stop outside the customs territory of the eu. the absence of a (clear) legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities raises the problem that the authorities may be limited in their supervisory powers. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure equal treatment for goods and to replace the legal basis previously established by the old customs code.
‒ this report is based on regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which introduces a series of measures to strengthen investor and consumer protection and restore investor and consumer confidence in financial services. the date set for its entry into force was 31 december 2016. however, on the grounds of increased transparency in the financial investment market and the need for time for the parties concerned to comply with the new requirements, a delay of 12 months is proposed for the entry into force of the regulation. the delay is excessive because the regulation is urgently needed and there is a risk that during this period certain demands from the financial services industry will be met and that the provisions of the regulation on consumer protection will be distorted. i abstained.
in writing. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 was adopted on 26 november 2014 with the aim of strengthening the protection of retail investors in packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips). in addition, it aims to restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector in the wake of the financial crisis. in order to meet those objectives, regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 requires priip manufacturers to comply with a uniform set of product disclosure requirements and retail investors to receive the key information document on the proposed priips. the information disclosed should enable retail investors to better understand the economic nature and risks of a specific product and to compare different products offered. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council introduced measures to strengthen investor protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. it requires manufacturers of packaged retail investment products and insurance-based investment products to draw up a key information document. on 30 june 2016, the commission adopted a delegated regulation supplementing the regulation by specifying the presentation, content of the key information document, its standardised format, the methodology underlying the risk and reward presentation, the cost calculation, the conditions and the minimum frequency of review of the information in the document. on 14 september 2016, the ep objected to the regulation and called, together with the vast majority of member states, for a postponement of the date of application of the regulation to give everyone more time to comply with the new requirements. it is therefore relevant and appropriate to amend regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 accordingly.
‒ the ec's proposal to impose more regulation on the priip sector emerged, albeit belatedly, as a response to the financial crisis. the proposed reforms are designed to protect retail investors from the financial sector selling inappropriate and high-risk products without providing appropriate information beforehand. the report, adopted in econ by a simplified procedure, aims to postpone by one year the date of adoption of regulation 1286/2014 (on priips tier one), i.e. the requirements to provide priips key information documents to retail investors will only come into effect on 1 january 2018. it would be desirable that the requirements for the key information document be implemented as soon as possible. however, it should be avoided that the regulation enters into force until the regulatory technical names have been defined. however, this does not justify a one-year delay in the obligation to submit the sid. the 'delay' may rather be related to the fact that the european parliament and the ec have agreed to revise the regulatory technical standards in line with the interests of the sector. this is yet another act designed to benefit big finance and monopoly capital to the detriment of workers and peoples.
‒ i supported this report which concerns a proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for insurance-based investment products and retail investment product packages. the regulation in question provides for a set of measures aimed at strengthening and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector with a view to greater transparency in the retail investment market by enabling various regulatory and supervisory authorities to draw up technical standards specifying the elements to be included in the documentary information drawn up by the entities which carry out these packages of retail investment products and insurance-based investment products. however, the amendments to the regulation in the meantime, concerning the format, methodology, cost calculation, revision and other formalities to be included in the documentary information, require a longer period of time for interested parties to comply with these new requirements. in this respect, i endorsed the proposal to postpone the entry into force of the regulation by 12 months, so that the amendments to the regulation apply from 1 january 2018.
‒ the ec's proposal to impose more regulation on the priip sector emerged, albeit belatedly, as a response to the financial crisis. the proposed reforms are designed to protect retail investors from the financial sector selling inappropriate and high-risk products without providing appropriate information beforehand. the report, adopted in econ by a simplified procedure, aims to postpone by one year the date of adoption of regulation 1286/2014 (on priips tier one), i.e. the requirements to provide priips key information documents to retail investors will only enter into force on 1 january 2018. for the pcp, this initiative represents another act of a play designed to save capitalism and its financial crisis, which is structural and which will only be overcome with another model of society, socialism.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons, and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the republic of kiribati, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the republic of kiribati was transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. following the adoption of that regulation, on 20 may 2014 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the republic of kiribati. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for eu citizens and nationals of the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i am therefore in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ this decision is intended to grant visa exemption to citizens of the european union and reciprocally to citizens of the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the two parties, and is of political importance within the framework of the cotonou agreement, promoting the strengthening of economic and cultural relations. quiribati is a democratic republic that respects human rights constitutionally. however, it is expected that the political dialogue on this matter will be intensified. the agreement will not only make travel more viable for businessmen but also facilitate travel for european citizens, thus investment and the dynamisation of the economy and tourism. i agree with the position taken in this report on the importance of visa-free travel as a means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together, and of fully benefiting from the acp-eu partnership.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons, and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the solomon islands, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. relations between the european union and the solomon islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and solomon islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ with the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the solomon islands were transferred to annex ii, which establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. following the adoption of that regulation, on 20 may 2014 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the solomon islands. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for eu citizens and solomon islands citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i am therefore in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ like the report on kiribati under discussion today, this decision also aims to grant visa-free travel to citizens of the european union (eu) and, reciprocally, to citizens of the solomon islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the solomon islands is a constitutional monarchy, having been a member of the commonwealth since 1978. political dialogues between these islands and the eu have focused on the protection of their vulnerable environment and on the defence of human rights and gender equality issues. this agreement will not only allow closer relations between the two parties but will also represent an important step forward in the context of eu-acp relations. as the solomon islands economy is essentially based on agriculture and the service sector, this agreement will encourage more european citizens to enter the islands, boosting their economy and bringing european and pacific peoples closer together. as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i voted in favour of this recommendation because i recognise the importance of the visa exemption as a benefit of the acp-eu partnership.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons, and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with micronesia, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. relations between the european union and micronesia are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the federated states of micronesia were transferred to annex ii, list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. following the adoption of that regulation, on 20 may 2014 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the federated states of micronesia. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for eu citizens and citizens of the federated states of micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i am therefore in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and nationals of the federated states of micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days for each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ this proposal for a recommendation aims to grant visa-free travel to citizens of the european union (eu) and reciprocally to citizens of micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the federated states of micronesia is a democratic republic committed to respect for human rights as enshrined in its constitution. political dialogue between the parties has focused on climate change, the defence of human rights and gender equality issues. the agreement will strengthen political and diplomatic relations between the two parties, develop limited trade relations and strengthen economic and cultural relations. since micronesia's economy is essentially based on the service sector (74% of its gdp) and the tourism sector has experienced a strong expansion in recent years, this agreement will make travel conditions viable for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and boosting local tourism. as in the case of other reports on visa exemption with third countries, which have been adopted today, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. the various conditions for the conclusion of the agreement include reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons, and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with tuvalu, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. relations between the european union and tuvalu are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and tuvaluan nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, tuvalu was transferred to annex ii, which contains the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. following the adoption of that regulation, on 20 may 2014 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and tuvalu. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for eu citizens and tuvaluan citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i am therefore in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of tuvalu travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ this recommendation seeks to grant visa-free travel to citizens of the european union and, reciprocally, to citizens of tuvalu travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this is an agreement of great political importance in acp-eu relations, reflecting the strengthening of economic and cultural relations enabled by this partnership. tuvalu has a stable democratic regime and is a member of the commonwealth. the commission is now expected to step up political dialogue on issues such as the preservation of the environment, human rights and the promotion of gender equality. tuvalu's economy is mainly dependent on the services sector, including online services, agriculture and fisheries. the island has a very limited tourist sector, so this agreement will make travel possible for business people as well as for tourists, facilitating investment and boosting the tourist sector. i agree with the position of my colleague on the importance of visa-free travel as a means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ the european union has a visa policy, in particular with regard to the short-stay visa waiver. this exemption is defined at european level, since it is valid for all member states except the united kingdom and ireland. in fact, one of the various requirements for the conclusion of the agreement is reciprocity. in other words, european citizens no longer need a visa either. it is up to the european parliament to give its approval to the agreement for its establishment, which is given. for all these reasons, and because this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations with the republic of the marshall islands, i am voting in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. relations between the european union and the marshall islands are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and marshall islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the amendment of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 by regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, the marshall islands were transferred to annex ii, which contains the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the member states. regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as amended shall apply to all member states with the exception of ireland and the united kingdom. following the adoption of that regulation, on 20 may 2014 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the marshall islands. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free regime for eu citizens and citizens of the marshall islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. i am therefore in favour of concluding the agreement.
‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the marshall islands to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ this proposal for a recommendation aims to grant visa exemption to citizens of the european union (eu) and reciprocally to citizens of the republic of the marshall islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in each 180-day period. the marshall islands constitute a stable presidential democracy. as with other acp countries, the political dialogue between these parties has focused on the protection of their environment, which is very vulnerable, the defence of human rights and issues relating to the promotion of gender equality. the agreement will strengthen trade relations between the parties and will also represent an important step forward in the implementation of the principles laid down in the cotonou agreement. since the marshall islands' economy is essentially based on the service sector, the livestock sector and agriculture, this agreement could bring about a significant improvement not only for the development of these sectors but also for the tourism sector by facilitating travel conditions for tourists. as a member of the delegation of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i voted in favour of this draft recommendation, as well as other reports on the same subject voted today.
‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (common, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders), regardless of the purpose of stay, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. we voted yes.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to provide the union with an instrument to respond to major natural disasters, such as the 2002 floods in central europe, which prompted the creation of the fund. over the years, some €3.8 billion has been mobilised to respond to more than 70 disasters, making it a real symbol of solidarity within the eu. i share the concern about the delays in the eusf procedures. i would stress the need to ensure greater speed and less red tape in the processing of applications, the mobilisation of funds and the preparation of implementation and closure reports. i believe that the use of the eusf must respect the strictest principles of sound financial management and that independence and transparency in the award, management and implementation of the eusf must be guaranteed. the resulting sharing of good practice is essential to progressively improve this instrument. i believe that sustainable reconstruction and other post-disaster activities should be part of the structural funds, but that the evaluation of the implementation of the eusf should result in recommendations for reconstruction to be in line with the purpose of prevention and adaptation of infrastructure. i therefore support the report.
in writing. following the tragic floods of 2002, the european union established the european union solidarity fund (regulation (ec) no 2012/2002) as an immediate expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. the eusf has been put to good use and has helped many countries. however, improvements are always possible, which is why this report was drawn up in order to find better solutions for the future. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the report, making a positive assessment of the implementation of this fund and the acuteness of the reform, suggests that member states optimise synergies with the strategic investment funds - in terms of developing natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments - and that reconstruction and these natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments always take into account the sustainability of reconstruction and resources, increasing resilience to the randomness of disasters. the report also makes a number of positive suggestions to the commission, including: increasing the threshold for advances from 10% to 15%; reducing the time taken to process applications from six to four weeks; fixing the eligibility threshold for regional natural disaster losses at 1% of regional gdp and taking into account the level of socioeconomic development of the affected regions in the assessment of applications; weighting indicators other than gdp, such as hdi or gni, for the assessment of eligibility. the report is considered positive, we vote in favour.
‒ the initiative report in question relates to the evaluation process of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), set up in 2002 to deal with situations of severe natural disasters affecting the member states of the union, which is extended to the candidate countries. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, follows the report presented by the european commission in october 2015 on the use of the eusf in the previous year. the analysis carried out shows that although it is impossible to predict disaster and emergency situations, it is desirable to improve the management of the consequences of disasters at their various stages, especially in terms of sustainable damage repair and risk management. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for faster activation of the eusf, greater transparency in its use and greater cooperation between the different levels of decision-making. i also support the adoption of a prevention policy that promotes complementarity between the use of the eusf and other european instruments, with particular emphasis on the cohesion funds, particularly when we are dealing with infrastructure projects (which should take into account aspects linked to risk prevention and potentially reduce the costs of natural disasters).
‒ the report, making a positive assessment of the implementation of this fund and the acuteness of the reform, suggests that member states optimise synergies with the strategic investment funds - in terms of developing natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments - and that reconstruction and these natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments always take into account the sustainability of reconstruction and resources, increasing resilience to the randomness of disasters. the report also makes a number of positive suggestions to the commission, including: increasing the threshold for advances from 10% to 15%; reducing the time taken to process applications from six to four weeks; fixing the eligibility threshold for regional natural disaster losses at 1% of regional gdp and taking into account the level of socioeconomic development of the affected regions in the assessment of applications; weighting indicators other than gdp, such as hdi or gni, for the assessment of eligibility. we consider the report to be positive and we vote in favour.
the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu and the us agree on the protection of personal data in the context of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, and calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu and the us agree on the protection of personal data in the context of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. i do not share the view that an opinion of the court of justice is necessary on this matter, as the committee on legal affairs itself considers that the agreement is based on the correct legal basis, ensures a high degree of protection of the fundamental right to personal data, promotes legal certainty and will trigger improvements in law enforcement cooperation with the united states. i therefore consider that this motion for a resolution is merely a delaying measure which may unjustifiably delay the implementation of the agreement for another two years. in view of the above, i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european parliament should give a signal of support and not of weakness to the conclusion of this agreement, so that negotiations for its implementation are not delayed indefinitely.
in writing. ‒ on 3 december 2010, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (hereinafter referred to as the 'framework agreement'). this agreement has raised doubts about its compatibility with the charter and eu secondary data protection legislation, in particular as regards the right to judicial redress, access by law enforcement agencies, limitation of access by the data subject and data retention periods. the resolution seeks to request the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties. we do not recognize the legitimacy of this court, which is shaped by the interests of this process of capitalist integration of the eu.
‒ the so-called framework agreement on the protection of personal data with the united states has been under discussion for the past 5 years. the european parliament has always taken the position that european citizens should have their rights respected. i am aware that cooperation and the exchange of information with the united states in the fight against crime are fundamental for the european union. however, as i have argued in many other areas, we cannot sacrifice everything for the sake of security. that is why i welcome the fact that clear limits have been set on the use of the data transmitted and on the retention period. the us administration also agreed to set up a provider and to recognise the fundamental right of european citizens to judicial protection. it is in recognition of this new framework, and in stressing that this agreement does not authorize the transfer of data but only creates the legal framework, that i am in favour of its adoption.
‒ this recommendation is based on a draft eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data. the draft agreement proposes a legal basis to ensure a high level of protection of personal data for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences in the context of police and judicial cooperation between the parties. however, there are serious doubts as to its compatibility with community legislation, as it does not provide the legal certainty and security needed to safeguard the fundamental right to personal data. i voted against it.
in writing. the framework agreement establishes (for the first time) a comprehensive agreement on data protection principles and safeguards when personal data are transferred for the purposes of criminal law enforcement between the us on the one hand and the european union and its member states on the other. the two-fold objective is to ensure a high level of data protection and thereby to enhance cooperation between the parties. while not constituting the legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the usa, the framework agreement complements, where necessary, the data protection safeguards provided for in existing or future data transfer agreements or national provisions authorising such transfers. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this recommendation approves the conclusion of the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data in the context of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. the agreement provides for a supposed guarantee of high data protection and the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation between the two sides of the atlantic, and announces that 'european citizens' will have the same rights as their us counterparts, including in bringing an action before us courts. however, the ambiguity of the terms in which the agreement is drawn up, and the premise that this is an international agreement which overrides national and european data protection standards and makes them a blank slate, makes us believe that we are dealing with an agreement which, in fact, calls into question and compromises rights, freedoms and guarantees. on the other hand, it is an agreement which further undermines the sovereignty of the member states, in clear conflict with the rights and interests of the peoples. we voted against it.
‒ this proposal for a recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement with the united states of america on the protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the main objective is therefore to ensure a high level of protection of fundamental rights and individual freedoms, in particular privacy, when transferring personal data between the authorities with coercive powers in the eu and its member states and the us counterpart. the provisions of the agreement set out the fundamental principles of data protection and establish the rights of natural persons and the rights of administrative and judicial redress. i believe that overall we are facing an agreement which will be a step forward for the protection of personal data transferred between the eu and the us, without restricting or violating any rights of data subjects, and for that reason i voted in favour of the adoption of this report.
‒ this agreement between the european union and the united states of america concerns the protection of personal data transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of crime, including terrorism, in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. personal data comprise any information concerning a person, whether it concerns his private, professional or public life. this could be a name, a photograph, an e-mail address, banking information, social media posts, medical information, or the ip address of your computer. the agreement is clearly a dangerous attack on freedoms and guarantees and opens the door to all kinds of abuses in terms of invading the private sphere of citizens. the idea is, under the heading of combating terrorism, to legitimize a security framework with all kinds of abuses, opening the way to the persecution of any and all troublesome personalities who question established institutions and values.
in writing. this proposal constitutes the legal instrument necessary for the conclusion of a stepping stone economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ghana, of the other part. the agreement provides a contractual safety net, guaranteeing duty-free access to the union market until the entry into force of the regional agreement. the stepping stone agreement will be applied provisionally and will be replaced by the epa concluded at regional level on the day it enters into force. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stepping stone economic partnership agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ghana, of the other part, recommends that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement, paving the way for its provisional application. ghana and the eu are partners in different areas, including the promotion of regional economic integration and investment. in 2015, the total value of bilateral trade between ghana and the union amounted to eur 5,4 billion, representing more than 20% of ghana's external trade. the country is one of the main agri-food exporters in the economic community of west african states (ecowas) region, exporting cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish, and importing rice, sugar and meat. nothing is said about the harmful effects of free trade, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment and the threat to sovereignty. while rejecting this recommendation, we express our full solidarity with the people of ghana and with the other peoples of west africa for their right to development, sovereignty and independence. we voted against it.
‒ this proposal for a recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and ghana, of the other part, in view of the delay in the signature of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement. the ratification of this agreement will provide ghana with a contractual guarantee of duty-free access to the union market until the entry into force of the regional framework agreement. it is therefore a step-by-step agreement which will be applied provisionally until the entry into force of the regional agreement, in strict compliance with wto rules. although not the ideal solution, given the absence of a regional dimension, rules of origin and a comprehensive institutional framework, ghana is implementing a set of reforms and is making efforts to combat corruption and eliminate child labour, this step-by-step agreement provides a stronger legal basis than the market access regulation and is a precursor to what will be the regional framework agreement. i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-ghana economic partnership agreement because it is an agreement that guarantees continued 'duty-free and quota-free' access to the union's internal market, thereby protecting thousands of jobs and strengthening ghana's exports. this agreement, which has been negotiated for some years, is provisional and will only be in force until the regional agreement (already concluded) between the eu and the west african states (ecowas) is ratified. i would point out that the ghanaian parliament, which is responsible for deciding on the national interest, unanimously approved the agreement. this is not a perfect agreement, but it is compatible with wto rules and offers stability. neither the acp market access regulation (mar) nor the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp+) incentive scheme are satisfactory alternatives. finally, the bilateral agreement contains safeguard measures for local industry and excludes from liberalisation the most sensitive products for the ghanaian economy. my vote respects the national choice of ghana.
‒ this epa grants ghana, a low/middle income country, full market access, which will allegedly provide the stability needed for new investment and job creation. some 35% of union exports to ghana are already fully or almost fully liberalised and the further reduction of customs duties will allow this proportion to be gradually increased to 80%. the cfp has serious doubts about these partnership agreements, which are based on free trade and the principle of the free functioning of markets. time will tell whether this agreement has benefited the people of ghana or has contributed to disrupting the economy, undermining food security or compromising its nascent industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fjellner report because, although i consider the ec-ghana steppingstone economic partnership agreement to be incomplete and outdated, i believe that a steppingstone agreement will fulfil its objective of helping to avoid trade disruptions in ghana and, at the same time, will prepare the ground for a future relationship based on a regional partnership agreement. i would also stress that this landmark economic partnership agreement offers opportunities for promoting regional economic integration and investment. the commission notes that the union has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the union producers.
in writing. article 13 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 defined a contingency margin of up to 0,03% of the gross national income of the union. in accordance with article 6 of that regulation, the commission calculated the absolute amount of the contingency margin for 2016. having mobilised the flexibility instrument in the amount of eur 1 530 million available for 2016, it appears necessary to mobilise the contingency margin in order to respond to the needs arising from the refugee, migration and security crisis by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 above the ceiling for category 3 (security and citizenship) commitments. in the framework of the general budget of the union for 2016, this report mobilises the contingency margin with the aim of making available an amount of eur 240,1 million in commitment appropriations over and above the ceiling for commitments in category 3 of the multiannual financial framework. i therefore support this report.
in writing. article 13 (1) of the mff regulation defines the contingency margin as an instrument of last resort to respond to unforeseen circumstances. having examined all other financial possibilities to respond to unforeseen circumstances, within the ceiling for expenditure in category 3 (security and citizenship) for 2016, and having proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument for categories 3 and 4 for a total amount of eur 1 530 million available in 2016, the mobilisation of the contingency margin is necessary to respond to the needs arising from the refugee, migration and security crisis in order to increase the commitment appropriations in category 3 in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 above the ceiling for that category. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed, together with draft amending budget no 4/2016, to mobilise the contingency margin in the amount of eur 240,1 million in 2016 to supplement the commitment appropriations for security and citizenship expenditure (category 3) of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016. given the need to respond to the challenges arising from the refugee, migration and security crises, it is essential to mobilise the contingency margin by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 above the ceiling for category 3 commitments. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
‒ the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is related to the need to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 with a view to financing the appropriations for commitments under category 3 (security and citizenship), in order to allow for the exceeding of the ceiling of this heading for the year 2016 in accordance with the current multiannual financial framework. in addition to not being 'new' money, it adds insufficient value to cope with and help take action against the ongoing migrant and refugee crisis. it is once again clear that the amounts provided for in the mff (within its limits) are once again below what is needed to deal with the repeated crises in the eu, not to mention what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that allows disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions.
in writing. article 13 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 has defined a contingency margin of up to 0,03 % of the gross national income of the union. the european commission has calculated the absolute amount of this margin for the period in question after having examined all other financial possibilities to react to unforeseen circumstances, within the ceiling of the category 3 (security and citizenship) commitments and after having mobilised the flexibility instrument. the total amount of eur 240,1 million was allocated to deal with unforeseen events during 2016. the need to mobilise this contingency margin arose from the urgency of responding to the needs arising from the refugee, migration and security crisis. given that this is a very specific situation, i voted in favour of this report, as the commission has proposed that this extra funding should supplement the commitment appropriations for category 3 (security and citizenship) of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
‒ the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is related to the need to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 with a view to financing the commitment appropriations under category 3 (security and citizenship), in order to allow for the exceeding of the ceiling of this heading for the year 2016 in accordance with the current multiannual financial framework. in addition to not being 'new' money, it adds insufficient value to deal with and help take action against the ongoing migrant and refugee crisis. it is once again clear that the amounts provided for in the mff (within its limits) are once again below what is needed to deal with the repeated crises in the eu, not to mention what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that allows disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions.
in writing. ‒ this amending budget reflects two distinct objectives. on the one hand, it allows for a reallocation of funds in the light of the budgetary execution that has been achieved so far. it also makes it possible to adjust the budget to the new legislative instruments adopted in the meantime and to deal with unforeseen circumstances. i therefore support the rapporteur's concern, although necessary, about the delay in implementing the union's funding programmes, as evidenced by the reduction in payments of some eur 7 billion. i am pleased to note that the programmes in the field of security and justice are being implemented at a high level, even though this level of solidarity from the union is not matched by the number of refugees relocated by the member states. finally, i welcome the advance funding for the new european border and coast guard, allowing it to become fully operational.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 4/2016 (dar no 4/2016) reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284,3 million, mainly under the budget lines of category 1b economic, social and territorial cohesion, and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. overall, the net impact of op 4/2014 on the expenditure side of the 2016 budget represents an increase of eur 225,4 million in commitment appropriations and a decrease of eur 7 274,3 million in payment appropriations. on the revenue side, this op also includes the revision of the estimate of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and of the value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni) bases, as well as the budgeting of the relevant uk corrections and their financing, which affects the distribution of member states' own resources contributions to the eu budget. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i share the rapporteur's concern about the payment of over eur 7 284.3 million, which is the result of significant delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management and sets the stage for a significant backlog of payment requests at the end of the current mff. i also share the rapporteur's concern about the expected decline in revenue, estimated at eur 1.8 billion, as a result of the devaluation of sterling against the euro. given the need to respond to the challenges arising from the refugee, migration and security crisis, i advocate strengthening category 3 through the mobilisation of the contingency margin. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
‒ this draft amending budget reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 7 284.3 million, mainly in the budget lines of category 1b economic, social and territorial cohesion, and therefore reduces national contributions accordingly. this op raises the level of commitment appropriations under category 3 security and citizenship by eur 50 million for the union emergency aid instrument, eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and eur 70 million for the internal security fund (isf), which requires the mobilisation of the contingency margin for a total amount of eur 240,1 million. it also anticipates the provisioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). we have many reservations about the mobilisation of this money. in the name of responding to the humanitarian crisis, the lion's share has been mobilized for the eu's security, xenophobic and racist policies. the situation of refugees on the ground, subject to practices that violate their human rights to a large extent, in a context of violations of international law by the eu and its member states, is deplorable. it is not surprising that the report boasts of increased funding for frontex.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the eu for the financial year 2016. this correction concerns the updating of appropriations to reflect, in particular, the evolution of the response to the new challenges arising from migration and new security needs, which are exceptional and of priority. in this connection, i endorsed the need to strengthen category 3 by mobilising the contingency margin, as well as the anticipation of the reinforcement of frontex staff. i also agreed to the early deployment of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), provided that the reallocation from the connecting europe facility is properly compensated in 2018 and does not prejudice the final financing plan of the new proposal for the extension of this fund. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017.
‒ with this amending budget, it is once again clear that the amounts provided for in the mff (within its limits) are once again below what is needed to cope with the repeated crises in the eu, not to mention what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that allows disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions.
this draft amending budget no 5 to the 2016 budget (por no 5/2016) covers the implementation of the new own resources decision (decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, hereinafter referred to as drp 2014), following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of the 2014 dpr on 1 october 2016. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid to the beneficiaries. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2016 results from the ratification and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which makes limited changes, such as a reduction in the collection costs of traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of mobilisation of vat-based resources for some member states and gross reductions in the annual contributions based on gni for some member states. the draft amending budget is intended to incorporate into the revenue of the union budget for 2016 the impact of adjustments to own resources resulting from the application of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, with retroactive effect to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. since draft amending budget no 5/2016 thus involves the modification of the individual contributions of the member states, it does not affect the overall amount of revenue or expenditure of the union budget. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
‒ the calculation of the contributions of the eu member states remains obscure and incomprehensible to the general public. it is true that each member state's contribution must be around 1% of its gross income, but the problem is that successive adjustments are made to the contributions of countries such as the uk, denmark, the netherlands, sweden or austria, and these adjustments are spread over the other member states, suggesting that this budget will not be as supportive as it is advertised. the return of part of the contributions based on the implementation of revenue (traditional own resources and fines) above the forecast is another paradox that happens at the same time as all the contingency margins are mobilized.
‒ this draft amending budget no 5/2016 follows the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of council decision 2014/335/eu of 26/05/14 on the european union's own resources. this council decision introduces some limited changes, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of mobilisation of vat-based resources for some member states and gross reductions in annual gni-based contributions also for some member states. this draft amending budget seeks to incorporate into the revenue of the 2016 union budget the impact of adjustments to own resources resulting from the application of the council decision, with retroactive effect to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. given that this proposal for a budgetary correction involves a modification of the individual contributions of all the member states, although it does not affect the overall amount of revenue or expenditure in the union budget, i do not see any objection to the adoption of this report, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the calculation of the contributions of the eu member states remains obscure and incomprehensible to the general public. it is true that each member state's contribution must be around 1% of its gross income, but the problem is that successive adjustments are made to the contributions of countries such as the uk, denmark, the netherlands, sweden or austria, and these adjustments are spread over the other member states, suggesting that this budget will not be as supportive as it is advertised. the return of part of the contributions based on the implementation of revenue (traditional own resources and fines) above the forecast is another paradox that happens at the same time as all the contingency margins are mobilized.
‒ the european union solidarity fund enables the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the people of regions struck by natural disasters. on 19 august 2016, germany made a request to mobilise the fund, following a series of extremely intense and short-lived floods that affected the region of lower bavaria in may and june 2016 and left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture, with 7 people killed and more than 47000 affected. i support this report which mobilises the amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations to be granted to germany under the european union solidarity fund.
this proposal addresses the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance related to a disaster in germany (floods affecting lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn), which occurred in may and june 2016. the series of very intense short-lived floods/ flash floods left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture. seven people have lost their lives and more than 47 000 have been affected in lower bavaria, 2,000 of whom were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and for three weeks without municipal water supply. there were also reports of significant damage to businesses and agriculture, as well as severe damage to basic infrastructure, water supply, sewage services and the electricity grid. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the eusf aims to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the eusf was requested to be mobilised to provide financial assistance following the disaster in germany (floods affecting lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn) in may and june 2016. the series of very intense short-lived floods/ flash floods left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture. seven people lost their lives and over 47 000 were affected in lower bavaria; two thousand of them were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. there were also reports of significant damage to businesses and agriculture, as well as severe damage to basic infrastructure, water supply, sewage services and the electricity grid. i support the mobilisation of the eusf in this case because it meets the requirements, because of the impact on the local community and economy and the enormous damage it has caused in the region, not only to public infrastructure but also to private property and businesses, as well as to the agricultural sector.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty, the series of very intense short-lived floods/ flash floods left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture. seven people lost their lives and more than 47 000 were affected in lower bavaria; 2 000 of them were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. apart from the solidarity owed to the affected populations, it is surprising that this solidarity is directed at germany, a country which has accumulated a huge surplus in its balance of payments at the expense of the other eu countries and which is asked to take advantage of this break for a greater contribution from euro zone consumption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for germany following the floods in the region of lower bavaria in may and june this year. this is a mobilisation of a total amount of eur 31,475 million to address the total direct damage caused by the disaster, considered a 'regional disaster' as provided for in article 2 (3) of the eusf, in a region also classified as a 'more developed region' for the purposes of the european structural and investment funds. given that this mobilisation meets the legal criteria in the regulation and is in line with the annual ceiling applicable to the eusf, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty, the series of very intense short-lived floods/ flash floods left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture. seven people were killed and more than 47 000 were affected in lower bavaria; 2 000 of them were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. apart from the solidarity owed to the affected populations, it is surprising that this solidarity is directed at germany, a country which has accumulated a huge surplus in its balance of payments at the expense of the other eu countries and which is asked to take advantage of this break for a greater contribution from euro zone consumption.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the proposed mobilisation requires the amendment of the 2016 budget to increase budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on living conditions, the environment and the economy'. the commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations to cover the losses incurred by germany. this report, which i support, endorses the council position on amending budget no 6/2016.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations. the eusf aims to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters, and is a special instrument as defined in the mff regulation, and the corresponding appropriations should be budgeted beyond the mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations. the european union solidarity fund is a special instrument as defined in the mff regulation and the corresponding appropriations should be budgeted beyond the mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget accompanies the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to germany and, in view of the amount that has been channelled to this end, it was also necessary to approve the draft amending budget covering the mobilisation of the fund, amounting to € 31.475 million, both in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the budget line for assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on living conditions, the environment or the economy, such as the severe floods in germany in may and june this year. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty, the series of very intense short-lived floods/ flash floods left a trail of destruction in public and private infrastructure, housing and agriculture. seven people were killed and more than 47 000 were affected in lower bavaria; 2 000 of them were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. apart from the solidarity owed to the affected populations, it is surprising that this solidarity is directed at germany, a country which has accumulated a huge surplus in its balance of payments at the expense of the other eu countries and which is asked to take advantage of this break for a greater contribution from euro zone consumption.
‒ having examined all possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen needs in commitment appropriations, the commission has proposed in its draft budget to mobilise the contingency margin in the amount of eur 1 164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 (security and citizenship) of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. during the discussion of the draft budget presented by the commission, the european parliament warned of the strong likelihood of additional financial needs arising in 2017 linked to the internal security crisis and the current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges, calling for the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 to be increased above the ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (global europe) of the multiannual financial framework. in the context of the letter of amendment no 1/2017, the commission revised the proposal to mobilise the appropriations to cover expenditure under heading 4 as well. the conciliation committee convened agreed to mobilise the contingency margin for an amount of eur 1 906,2 million for heading 3 and 4. the report is therefore supported by the above.
in writing. other this proposal includes an amount of eur 1164,4 million for which the commission had already made a proposal to mobilise the contingency margin for heading 3 accompanying the initial draft budget for 2017, which is now repealed and replaced by this proposal. this proposal was preceded by another commission proposal to mobilise the full amount of the flexibility instrument available for 2017 (eur 530 million), also for heading 3. although the refugee, migration and security crisis began in 2015, its effects continue to evolve day by day. the political decisions of third countries regarding the acceptance of refugees on their territory, as well as the opening and closing of borders, make it very difficult to predict long-term developments in this area. the volatility and unpredictability of the crisis justify the use of the contingency margin as an instrument of last resort to avoid the unforeseen consequences of this crisis as regards the expenditure needs of heads of 3 and 4. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ given the likelihood of additional financial needs arising in 2017 related to the internal security crisis and current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges, these needs are likely to significantly exceed the available funding under category 3. i believe that the commission should explicitly state the terms on which additional funds are mobilised using the contingency margin to respond to any additional category 3 financial needs throughout 2017.
in writing. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 provides for the mobilisation of the contingency margin of up to 0,03 % of the eu-28 gross national income as a last resort instrument to respond to unforeseen circumstances. in the technical adjustment of the mff for 2017, based on article 6 of the mff regulation, the absolute value of the contingency margin for the year 2017 is set at eur 4 496,8 million. in this way, and allegedly in order to respond to the security crisis and the migration and humanitarian challenges of the union, and having examined all possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen needs in terms of commitment appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 in the amount of eur 1 164.4 million in order to complement heading 3 of the general budget of the european union. we support the need to mobilise more funds for the refugee crisis. however, given the current eu migration policy, we fear that these funds will only reinforce the repressive instruments of foreign policy, accentuating its deeply inhumane character.
in writing. article 13 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 has defined a contingency margin of up to 0,03 % of the gross national income of the union. the european commission has calculated the gross amount of this contingency margin for 2017 and decided to increase the commitment appropriations of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. due to the increasing urgency of responding to the needs arising from the refugee, migration and security crises, there will be an increase above the ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (global europe) of the multiannual financial framework, which will be offset by a gradual reduction over the following 3 years (2017, 2018 and 2019) of the amounts applied to areas not affected by the real eu urgencies, such as heading 2 'sustainable growth - natural resources' and heading 5 'governance'. as additional financial needs are likely to arise in connection with the internal security crisis and the current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges, i voted in favour of this report, as it seems logical to me to mobilise financial mechanisms of action for unforeseen and urgent measures in the course of 2017.
in writing. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 provides for the mobilisation of the contingency margin of up to 0,03 % of the eu-28 gross national income as a last resort instrument to respond to unforeseen circumstances. in the technical adjustment of the mff for 2017, based on article 6 of the mff regulation, the absolute value of the contingency margin for the year 2017 is set at eur 4 496,8 million. in this way, and allegedly in response to the security crisis and the migration and humanitarian challenges of the union, and after examining all possibilities for financing additional and unforeseen needs in terms of commitment appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 in the amount of eur 1 164.4 million in order to complement heading 3 of the general budget of the european union. we support the need to mobilise more funds for the refugee crisis. however, given the current eu migration policy, we fear that these funds will only reinforce the repressive instruments of foreign policy, accentuating its deeply inhumane character.
in writing. ‒ throughout 2016, the union has been faced with numerous challenges, notably the so-called refugee crisis and terrorism, with the consequent increased need for resources for these areas, necessitating budgetary reinforcement throughout 2016. these needs will remain high in 2017, so in addition to strengthening the respective budget lines in the annual union budget, parliament is already mobilising the flexibility instrument, totalling €530 million. the european union must be able to provide the means for effective european solidarity. for example, this reinforcement will contribute to the enhancement of the capacity of the european asylum support office. however, it should also be stressed that there is no room for any further increase for next year. this highlights the need for greater flexibility in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ given the likelihood of additional financial needs arising in 2017 related to the internal security crisis and current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges, these needs are likely to significantly exceed the available funding under category 3. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, beyond the ceiling of heading 3 of the budget, in the amount of eur 530 million, to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security. i agree with the rapporteur that the use of this instrument once again highlights the crucial need for greater flexibility in the union budget.
‒ the flexibility instrument is intended to allow the financing of identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the ceilings of one or more headings of the eu budget. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is related to the need to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 with a view to financing the commitment appropriations under heading 3 security and citizenship , in order to allow for the overrun of the ceiling of this heading for the year 2017, in accordance with the current multiannual financial framework. the total amount of eur 530 million for 2017 from this instrument is therefore authorised. in addition to not being 'new' money, it adds insufficient value to deal with and help take action against the ongoing humanitarian refugee crisis. it is once again clear that the amounts provided for in the mff (within its limits) are once again below what is needed to deal with the repeated crises in the eu, not to mention what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that allows disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions.
‒ the flexibility instrument is intended to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the ceilings of other headings, and the annual ceiling for this instrument is currently set at eur 471 million. due to the urgent and emerging needs in the european union, it is necessary to mobilise additional amounts to those budgeted for the year 2017 to help finance measures aimed at mitigating the current migration and refugee crises and enhancing security. after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations within the expenditure ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship), it is therefore necessary to mobilise this instrument in order to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security. the appropriations for commitments are 530 million. the appropriations for payments are set at eur 238,3 million for 2017 (which will exhaust the annual ceiling for that year), eur 91 million for 2018, eur 141,9 million for 2019 and eur 58,8 million for 2020. i agree with this proposal and with the need to act quickly and effectively, so i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the flexibility instrument is intended to allow the financing of identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the ceilings of one or more headings of the eu budget. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is related to the need to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 with a view to financing the commitment appropriations under heading 3 - security and citizenship, so that it will allow going beyond the ceiling of this heading for the year 2017 in accordance with the current multiannual financial framework. the total amount of eur 530 million from the instrument for 2017 is hereby authorised. in addition to not being "new" money, it is added with an insufficient value to cope with and help take action against the ongoing migrant and refugee crisis. it is once again clear that the amounts provided for in the mff (within its limits) are once again below what is needed to deal with the repeated crises in the eu, not to mention what is needed for an effective redistributive policy that allows disadvantaged countries and regions to come closer to the richer regions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is necessary to respond to the current migration, refugee and security crises. i would stress that with this mobilisation of its funds, the flexibility instrument is exhausting the total amount available for 2017, which demonstrates the eu's commitment to solidarity with refugees, but also the lack of the union's own resources.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by large-scale natural disasters and to show european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating their accession in the event of a major natural disaster. i support the šulin report which aims to put in the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of 50 million for the payment of advances, in an efficient and timely manner, in the event of a disaster in the next year. this is the direct result of the new provision in the 2014 amending regulation (article 4a), strongly advocated by the european parliament, which aims to accelerate the disbursement of aid to affected countries by paying an advance before the final decision on aid is taken, thus enhancing the effectiveness of the fund.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by large-scale natural disasters and to show european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. article 10 of the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices), beyond the corresponding headings of the financial framework. the current proposal for a decision of the ep and the council aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in an efficient and timely manner in the event of a possible catastrophe in the coming year. i agree with the rapporteur that the eusf is not just a mechanism for eu financial support, but also a clear political message of solidarity, while providing the necessary assistance to the citizens affected.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation is not about responding to a specific emergency situation, or to any particular disaster, it is about mobilising eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations in advance so that if a disaster occurs in 2017, the payment of advances can be made more efficiently and in a timely manner. this measure responds to the justified criticism of this fund for the delay in its mobilisation for solidarity aid to member states in emergency situations.
‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to show european solidarity to the affected regions of the rest of europe. the eusf aims to provide financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating their accession when the total direct damage caused by a disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of the country's gni, whichever is the lower. the regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the eusf within the ceiling of eur 500 million per year. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council seeks to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances. this new provision aims to accelerate the disbursement of the eusf to the countries concerned by paying an advance before the final decision on its allocation is taken, thus enhancing the effectiveness of the fund (which will only be granted after a preliminary assessment by the commission). i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its content.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the new financial perspective to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2007 and to extend it to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. this measure responds to the justified criticism of this fund for the delay in its mobilisation for solidarity aid to member states in emergency situations.
‒ the european parliament has always maintained that the union's 2017 budget had to respond to the needs linked to the challenges of migration and the slowdown in growth following the economic crisis. in this connection, following the presentation of the budget by the commission, the european parliament tabled a set of amendments aimed at responding to the challenges of migration and the slowdown in economic growth. this report, which i support, expresses the agreement reached by the conciliation committee on the union budget, in which the european parliament endorses its suggestions for amendments to the union budget, in particular 200 million new appropriations for the horizon 2020, erasmus+, cosme and connecting europe facility programmes; 500 million new appropriations for the youth employment initiative, a significant increase of 530 million for migration issues, and an increase of 500 million in appropriations for farmers. parliament also approved the strengthening of the human and budgetary resources of several union agencies, notably eurojust, europol and easo.
‒ this report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, adopted by the conciliation committee in the framework of the budgetary procedure, deserves my vote in favour because of what it says. it should be stressed that the ep, the council and the commission maintain the reduction of youth unemployment as a major political priority and, in this context, reaffirm their determination to make the best possible use of the budgetary resources available to tackle this problem, in particular through the youth employment initiative (yei). i submit that the margins that have become available below the mff ceilings for commitment appropriations for the financial years 2014-2017 constitute a global mff margin for commitments to be made available beyond the ceilings set out in the mff for the years 2016-2020 for policy objectives related to growth and employment, in particular youth employment, as provided for in article 14 (1) of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a budget which cannot, no matter how much rice powder is thrown at it, disguise the deep crisis in which the european union finds itself. the european parliament and the commission's proposal, based on a short multiannual framework, did not correspond from the outset to the real needs of a european union which was severely depressed and increasingly asymmetric from a social and economic point of view. yet the council soon made it clear that this minimalist proposal would not merit their agreement. the agreement announced, with a small increase in funds to deal with the refugee crisis and a slight increase in funds to support the mobility of young people under the erasmus+ programme, falls far short of the possibilities and needs and even goes in the wrong direction, reducing the weight of cohesion and support for productive activities and increasing the dimension of foreign and security policy, emphasising the repressive character of the eu, particularly in relation to refugees. it is also a budget that is becoming less and less transparent, with trust funds and other financial instruments taking up an increasingly large share, making the parliament's monitoring role even more difficult. all the more reason for us to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, totalling eur 157.86 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 134.49 billion in payment appropriations. this budget confirms, in the context of the negotiations which have taken place, that the priority areas for the coming year should be youth employment, economic growth, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation, student mobility, migration and security. a further eur 200 million was allocated to programmes for growth and jobs, such as cosme - in the area of business competitiveness, the connecting europe facility - in the area of crossborder mobility and energy, horizon 2020 - in the area of research and innovation, and erasmus + - for student mobility.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a budget which cannot, no matter how much rice powder is thrown at it, disguise the deep crisis in which the european union finds itself. the european parliament and the commission's proposal, based on a short multiannual framework, did not correspond from the outset to the real needs of a european union which was severely depressed and increasingly asymmetric from a social and economic point of view. yet the council soon made it clear that this minimalist proposal would not merit their agreement. the agreement announced, with a small increase in funds to deal with the refugee crisis and a slight increase in funds to support the mobility of young people under the erasmus+ programme, falls far short of the possibilities and needs and even goes in the wrong direction, reducing the weight of cohesion and support for productive activities and increasing the dimension of foreign and security policy, emphasising the repressive character of the eu, particularly in relation to refugees. it is also a budget that is becoming less and less transparent, with trust funds and other financial instruments taking up an increasingly large share, making the parliament's monitoring role even more difficult. all the more reason for us to vote against.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i express my solidarity with the victims of the earthquakes and their families and with the work of the authorities and volunteers who provided emergency aid after the disaster. i share the concern that some european territories are more vulnerable to seismic activity and that research should be accelerated in order to prevent damage, manage crises and reduce the impact of disasters, in line with initiatives under horizon 2020, and that the requirements for the construction of earthquake-resistant infrastructure should also be respected. i also believe that the procedures for activating the eu civil protection mechanism should be further simplified and that the commission should help to speed up sustainable reconstruction and investment in earthquake-resistant infrastructure and optimise existing eu funding for the prevention of natural disasters.
in the light of the seriousness of the earthquake in italy, the resolution calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to enable and provide rapid and maximum funding through the european union solidarity fund, and stresses the increased role and responsibility of regional and local authorities in the management and distribution of funds in their territories. it is important to mobilise all available instruments under the regional and cohesion funds so that they are used effectively for reconstruction activities and all other necessary interventions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities.
in august and october 2016, a series of strong earthquakes struck central italy, injuring more than 400 people, sadly claiming 290 lives, and forcing the displacement of 100,000 inhabitants as a result of the destruction caused. the impact of these earthquakes has destroyed cities, caused damage to local and regional infrastructure, ruined historical and cultural heritage and caused severe disruptions to economic, agricultural and tourist activities. the european union civil protection mechanism is absolutely essential in promoting cooperation between national civil protection authorities across europe, and so the activation procedures need to be simplified for a prompt, rapid and effective provision of assistance in the event of disasters such as this. there is also a need to create synergies between all available instruments, including the european structural and investment funds, in order to ensure that resources are used quickly and effectively in the necessary interventions. considering that some eu territories are more vulnerable and more prone to recurrent natural disasters, i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to support these regions in particular more quickly and effectively.
in the light of the seriousness of the earthquake in italy, the resolution calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to enable and provide rapid and maximum funding through the european union solidarity fund, and stresses the increased role and responsibility of regional and local authorities in the management and distribution of funds in their territories. it is important to mobilise all available instruments under the regional and cohesion funds so that they are used effectively for reconstruction activities and all other necessary interventions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities.
‒ the european parliament has a duty to assess the capacity and suitability of european commissioners at all times, but especially at the time of their appointment. i believe that this assessment is above all political and to some extent technical, but that it must also include a dimension of monitoring possible conflicts of interest. i therefore believe that the concept of conflict of interest should not be vague and that its verification should be based on objective and verifiable criteria. i generally support the recommendations on the code of conduct for members of the commission, because once implemented, they bring greater transparency to declarations of financial interests. i would stress the need to balance these transparency requirements with the need to respect the privacy of commissioners, in particular their family members. i would remind you that parliament should be given a structural role in the examination of the financial statements at the beginning of the commissioners' term of office and whenever there is a substantial change in circumstances, whether it be a change of portfolio or a change in the financial interests of each one. however, this evaluation should be substantive and not investigative, resulting in recommendations that promote and advocate transparency. i therefore support this report.
‒ we support many of the considerations and proposals put forward in the report, on the promiscuity between commissioners and the economic power and its representatives, on the shortcomings of the code of conduct and the need for greater transparency in relations between the parties involved. we note that this initiative is a reaction to the 'revolving door' scandals, in which many former members of the commission are involved. but we also recognize the limitations of this report, since the response to the problems it points to should be much more comprehensive and incisive. it is harmful to the commission itself, a body appointed by politicians and not elected, to leave the revision of its own code of conduct to it. on the other hand, the treaties themselves are a buckle that imposes, defines and creates conditions for promiscuity with political power, through the intermediaries of the 'lobbies' and representatives of monopoly capital, which condition and dictate the legislative senses of the eu. in other words, it is the eu's very fabric and the integration process it represents that determines this reality, which will not be altered by any code of conduct.
‒ the rules of procedure of the european parliament (pe), in particular annex 16, provide for the request for information on the commissioners-designate, in particular their declaration of financial interests, which should form part of the evaluation by the committee on legal affairs. however, the interpretation of these statements has raised some doubts and the committee on constitutional affairs (cac) has been asked for an opinion as to whether this examination should be limited to a formal or substantive analysis of the information contained therein. the cac considered that the analysis should be substantive, and therefore the ep considered it important to review these verification rules, suggesting that confirmation of the absence of financial conflicts is a prerequisite for the hearing of the commissioner-designate. the report seeks to clarify in the regulation the scope of the examination of declarations of interests, the verification of the absence of a conflict of interest as an indispensable prerequisite for hearing the candidate and, in the event of a finding of incompatibility, the formulation of recommendations to terminate it. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals and with the need for the commission to amend its code of conduct on declarations of interests to improve transparency, so i voted in favour of this report.
in the first place, we are in favour of greater transparency in the question of the promiscuity between economic and political power and, of course, we are in favour of anything that can stop the current subordination of the european institutions in general and of the european commission in particular to the big lobbies of big capital. however, it must be stressed that the central problem is the nature of the european union, its capitalist nature, which cannot be solved by a revision of the code of conduct or not. the creation of a residual state, completely absent from the economy and without the material means to be able to exercise its sovereignty and its legitimate power, which has been handed over to it by the people, will always be the best way to keep things the same, with the european institutions serving the interests of the big transnational corporations.
‒ we opposed the adoption of the offshore safety directive, for the weakening of its requirements in the negotiation process and the absence of a moratorium on the exploitation of fossil resources in the arctic. the present resolution makes a number of criticisms of this and other existing directives on the subject, which we are following, but nothing about the moratorium, merely suggesting an environmental impact assessment. it calls for the immediate ratification of the paris cop21 agreements, ignoring their profound limitations. it advocates the communityisation of criminal law, which, either by indicating political objectives and targets or by the concrete imposition of legal regimes, procedural solutions or the organisation of the judicial structure, has been an incentive and cover for national policies in portugal which are contrary to the interests of workers and the people and which contribute to the de-characterisation of the democratic regime also at the judicial level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report builds on directive 2013/30/eu on the safety of offshore operations, supplemented by the directives on environmental liability and environmental impact assessment. it calls for the establishment of minimum requirements for the prevention of major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations in the eu and the mitigation of their consequences. in fact, member states are in default in updating their national legal frameworks for oil and gas operations in order to harmonise them in accordance with the so-called offshore safety directive. it is therefore of the utmost importance to lay down the basic elements of a comprehensive eu framework. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals that the directive should include a chapter on civil liability for damage caused to natural and legal persons and a chapter on criminal liability for offshore accidents. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of the polluter pays principle to the provision of financial guarantees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the community are respected.
‒ this report starts from a problem which is the increase in offshore gas and oil exploration on the high seas, mainly in the north sea, but also in the black sea and the mediterranean sea. 90% of the oil produced in europe and 60% of the gas comes from offshore production. 73% of europe's oil comes from the north sea. the increase in farms due to energy requirements could lead to accidents whose damage to people, the economy and the environment must be prevented and repaired. this is despite the fact that there has been no major accident in scotland since 1988. however, thousands of smaller accidents with damage have been recorded. it is in the interest of seeking a uniform regime in this matter that this report is being drawn up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the chrysogonos report because i agree with the proposals put forward on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations. i stress the importance of updating the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that the polluter pays principle is applied not only to environmental damage but also to cover the costs of traditional claims such as personal injury and property damage. i would remind you that i tabled a number of amendments to the report in the committee on the environment, calling on the european commission to use the principles of precaution and preventive action in this area, which by its nature often has an impact on a cross-border dimension.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. a number of concerns have been raised, motivated by the interests of the eu, and in particular of belgium, the former colonizer of that country, which are intended to justify actions of interference and interference in a sovereign country. this is nothing new, it is the usual practice of the majority of the european parliament, which legitimizes acts of interference, destabilization and external intervention with a view to controlling resources and regions. the practice of sanctions is defended. it criticises sovereign bodies, while at the same time it supports the sponsorship of organisations and movements which are supposedly fighting for democracy. we are well aware of the aims and practices behind these purportedly independent organizations, funded to promote internal destabilization. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the contrary, the militaristic and interventionist role of nato and the strengthening of its military presence through the us military command africom is to be condemned. on the role of multinationals and their role in financing armed groups, not a word of condemnation. an unmitigated attack on a sovereign country, whose people, and only they, are responsible for deciding its destiny. we voted against it.
‒ joseph kabila has been president of the democratic republic of congo (drc) since 2001 and is due to end his term in december. in the drc, the office of president is constitutionally limited to two terms. the next presidential elections were scheduled for later this year. however, in the last two years, the current president has been using administrative and technical means to try to postpone its implementation, in order to remain in power beyond the end of his constitutional mandate. in recent weeks, the population has been protesting against this possibility and, as a result, there have been episodes of violence and loss of life. this situation of severe social instability and even repression is of great concern to the european union. as a country party to the cotonou agreement, the drc is obliged to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights, in particular freedom of expression, good governance and transparency. the eu as a contracting party to this agreement must take concrete measures to hold accountable and stop the infringements and violations committed. in agreeing with the urgency of holding a peaceful and constructive dialogue to prevent the political crisis from worsening and new acts of violence, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union is calling on the united states to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the virus. most of the political groups in the european parliament which subscribe to this document conceal the destabilising role of european countries in the country, for example belgium. there is no call for accountability, no attack on multinationals and their role in financing armed groups. he has not said a single word to condemn the militarist and interventionist role of nato and the strengthening of the military presence of this political-military bloc through the us military command africom.
in the light of the recent events in the democratic republic of congo (drc), the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the country. i would like to emphasize the appeal in the resolution to the authorities of the drc and, first of all, to its president, that it is their responsibility to protect citizens living throughout the national territory, in particular to protect them against abuses and crimes, and to exercise the function of governing in the strictest respect for the rule of law.
the resolution goes on without any reference to the importance and imperative need to respect the political sovereignty of the beneficiary countries in energy matters and that initiatives in this area must take into account the national context, respond to the aspirations of the population and the needs of the country. it also points to greater involvement of the private sector in energy development aid programmes as a way of achieving the seventh sustainable development goal - ensuring reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all. we know that the logic of the market and profit maximisation has had a negative impact on access to energy and increased costs of access to energy, contributing to the phenomena of energy poverty of substantial proportions in the eu. it follows, by promoting public-private partnerships, a way of financing the private sector that guarantees profits, while workers, the people and the states bear the losses of the exploitation. we voted against it.
‒ this motion for a resolution draws attention to the importance of access to energy in developing countries, as this access is a powerful instrument for reducing poverty in these countries and consequently for achieving the sustainable development goals, in line with the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement. the commission has also proposed that the eu should support the development of the energy sector in the countries concerned, in particular by supporting the european commission's 'energy for development' initiative, implementing the icd regulation and promoting the use of renewable energy in africa, particularly solar and wind power in rural areas. on the contrary, it is necessary to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i agree with the wording of the motion for a resolution.
‒ this resolution examines the situation and main challenges faced in implementing planned development assistance in the field of energy and the prospects for its continued implementation. however, this resolution does not mention the importance of respecting the political sovereignty of the beneficiary countries in energy matters and that initiatives in this area must take account of the national context and respond to the aspirations of the population and the needs of the country. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. it is also noted that an increasing contribution from private investment is needed to achieve the seventh sustainable development goal - ensuring reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all. i mean, nothing has been learned from the past. the right to and universal access to energy will never be the work of any private interest. only a strong public energy sector can guarantee this right.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries because i agree with the need to strengthen the strong link between access to energy and human and economic development. i would remind you that 1.2 billion people do not have access to electricity, and that for an even larger number of people, that access is unstable. i would therefore like to stress my support for the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to give an additional 500 million people in developing countries access to sustainable energy by 2030. i also stress the role of energy as a catalyst for many other areas such as health, education, but also telecommunications and internet connectivity which i believe should be universal access rights.
in writing. the report deals with the follow-up to the application of the european order for payment procedure and allows creditors to obtain an order for payment more easily for the recovery of uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters. this is an optional procedure that can be used in cross-border cases as an alternative to equivalent national procedures. late payment is one of the main causes of insolvency, which is particularly threatening to small and medium-sized enterprises, often resulting in job losses. the procedure was designed to enable the rapid recovery of amounts arising from debts which are certain, net and due and not disputed by the defendant. although operating in a generally satisfactory manner, this procedure is far from having exhausted its full potential, since it is mainly used in member states whose legislation provides for a similar procedure. despite the considerations set out in the report on the improvement of the functioning of the single market, which is also responsible for the difficulties faced by many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, this is a technical procedure for judicial cooperation at european and civil level, which aims to combat one of the main causes of insolvency.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, concerns the european order for payment procedure, which is characterized by enabling creditors to recover their uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters in cross-border cases more easily, quickly and effectively. this is an optional procedure, which does not require the intervention of a lawyer and can be carried out electronically in any member state without any additional formalities. although this procedure is more widely used in countries with similar systems, it is important to make efforts to disseminate this instrument to companies and professionals in the field, making them aware of the advantages and benefits of its application. i agree with the suggestions made by the rapporteur on the elements necessary for the efficient use of the european injunction procedure, in particular as regards the time limit for issuing the injunctions, the submission of online forms and the acceptance of applications in other official languages of the member states. i welcome the legal clarifications that have been made to the regulation, especially those relating to consumer protection, although some aspects need to be further harmonised in the legislation of each member state.
‒ the report deals with the follow-up to the application of the european order for payment procedure, which results from regulation (ec) no 1896/2006. the procedure allows creditors to easily obtain an order for payment for the recovery of uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters. the application may be submitted by post or, often, by electronic means, does not require the intervention of a lawyer and is applicable in other member states without further formalities. the european order for payment is issued automatically, solely on the basis of the application, but the debtor may lodge a statement of opposition within 30 days. in the event of opposition, the order for payment procedure shall be terminated and counter-claim proceedings may be instituted. this is an optional procedure that can be used in cross-border cases as an alternative to equivalent national procedures.
mr president, the faith in the market is becoming more and more blind. they are no longer even able to justify it, they just insist: more liberalization that this must happen afterwards; more liberalization that that must happen afterwards. it's like magic. only reality is stubborn. the process they call liberalizing is in fact a process of monopolistic concentration, of attack on national sovereignty, of degradation of the public service and of intensified exploitation of railway workers. it is curious that they now come to defend for private exploitation guarantees which have been destroyed or weakened in the process of liquidating public ownership of the railway sector, such as the increased public financing of the system, or the public investment in rolling stock and infrastructure, which are necessary to guarantee the profit of the private operators of the system. the so-called social safeguards may serve to facilitate the collaboration of social democracy in this process, but in practice they do not serve any purpose, as has been made clear in other sectors, for example in the field of large-scale assistance. finally, it is obvious that this package, as several national parliaments have said, calls into question the principle of subsidiarity and, for that reason too, it must be rejected.
mr president, the conversation is not new, nor are the arguments original. under the guise of a miraculous modernisation of services and operations, the liberalisation and privatisation of another strategic sector of the economy is being pursued: the port sector. we have already seen the promise in other sectors: attracting investment, greater efficiency, better quality, we know what all this means. it is true that this proposal falls far short of the european commission's initial liberalising ambitions. it reduces the degree of liberalization, a retreat certainly forced by the struggle, by the resistance of the workers in the first place and which we value here. but the truth is that despite this, the proposal does not fail to point to a path, a negative path, which must be fought. it is funny how you express concern for port users. it is funny that while in other sectors users become customers, for example in the case of public transport, here where the customers are large companies, we are already talking about users. it is very clear and very illuminating from the point of view of big capital, of the big economic groups and of the big multinationals.
the distribution of marine species knows no borders. in the case of deep-sea species, the problem is even more complex. scientific research has long shown that deep-sea habitats and species are inherently more vulnerable because they generally have high longevity, late maturation, low reproduction and few natural enemies. in some deep-sea fisheries, such as those in the north-east atlantic, the azores and madeira, restrictions on industrial trawls and gillnets have been in place for many years. the habitats and ecosystems of this region are of the same nature as those of the international waters of the north-east atlantic. this regulation, which is being discussed here today, extends some of the rules that were implemented for macaronesia 11 years ago through european commission regulation no 1568 of 2005, but falls far short of this. it was perhaps the consensus document possible and as such i commend the rapporteur for her effort. it is already some progress to stop fishing below 800 metres and in vulnerable marine ecosystems below 400 metres. by reducing the damage that drift does to cold coral reefs and deep-sea sponges, we are preserving a legacy that goes back thousands of years, and at the same time, we are helping to protect the reproduction and sustainability of fisheries resources. but we could have gone further and i fear that if we have not done so, it will continue to affect, for example, small-scale fishing in archipelagic regions, given the connectivity of the oceans.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the compromise that has now finally been reached is reasonable in terms of the objectives pursued and the solutions suggested, which, in our view, was not the case with the european commission's initial proposal. freezing the fishing footprint by restricting the action of highly impactful gear to areas where this impact can no longer be avoided, while taking specific measures to protect vulnerable seabed ecosystems, seemed to us from the outset to be sensible and appropriate. we also value measures to improve scientific knowledge, making it more robust to better support policy decision-making and impact assessment processes. we would, however, have liked to have gone further in the field of international waters, where fishing activities are now carried out which would have required stricter regulation, thus benefiting, for example, the resources in the waters of the autonomous regions of the azores and madeira.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr nagy on his report. i agree with him that 2015 was a particularly difficult year for fundamental rights in the union. although some developments have been made, structural problems remain, headed by the famous copenhagen dilemma. the union cannot allow any of its member states to fail to meet the basic criteria for membership. if it is true that each new government can legitimately change its policies, it is also clear that new majorities cannot change the nature of the state, putting in question such fundamental values as the rule of law. that is why this parliament has recently endorsed the need for us to establish a mechanism to assess continuously whether the copenhagen criteria are being met. but 2015 also saw violent attacks on other fundamental rights, such as security and freedom of expression. we have been struck by terrorist attacks, which should make us reflect on the promotion of the universal values that unite us. in particular, let me stress the phenomenon of radicalisation, the effects of which can be overwhelming and prolonged. not least, we were confronted with a large number of people at our borders here too is our matrix: the right to asylum and the right to life. here too, parliament has taken decisive steps already in 2016, but much remains to be done, both in terms of our humanitarian responsibilities and in the common european asylum system.
madam president, what we know about the development of the cultural and creative industries, not only in europe but also in the united states and other regions, suggests that they are not a factor in promoting cultural and linguistic diversity, but on the contrary a factor in cultural homogenization and in the reduction and dilution of cultural and linguistic particularities and specificities. this is a trend in evolution that is not merciless and that is not properly considered here. what is called european identity here will at best be the identity of a certain conception of europe, which has nothing to do with the diversity and the broad dialogue that the best european cultural tradition has established with other cultures. it is significant that we are talking here about european and regional identity, but not about national identities, which are an inescapable factor in european identity. the intention is clear to go further and further in a process of commodification of all cultural production, consistent with a vision of society that we reject, in which everything is reduced to a commodity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the progress made in the completion of the energy union must also be a boost to save the european project. it is agendas like this that the union needs - agendas that allow it to lead the design of the future and to erase the ghosts of the past. the targets are ambitious: 50% clean electricity by 2030, emission-free electricity generation by 2050, additional net investment of €177 billion per year between 2021 and 2030, and 900 000 new jobs. it is important, however, that these figures should be realised, but we must not be dazzled by them. we must seize this opportunity to modernise the market, make it more transparent, efficient and fair, improve interconnections and regulation, develop production processes and create even smarter networks, tackle regional asymmetries, ensure the competitiveness of industry and services, ensure universal access to electricity and reduce energy poverty. clean energy is a good choice for the planet and for people. today it is also part of the energy needed for the european project to survive. so this is an agenda that the european union cannot fail, that we cannot fail.
in writing. these are the kind of big words that fit in any room. the problem is the strategy chosen to achieve that goal. the path chosen by the european union was the path of the market, or rather the illusion of the market. over the past few decades, all public energy production and distribution systems have been privatized. huge private energy groups have been created that control political power and rely on this supremacy to secure more power and more profits for their companies. no summit, however festive or ambitious, can hide this reality. the only way to have a sustainable world, with a clean energy policy that is accessible to all, can only be achieved with public policies and with public control over the production and distribution of energy. everything else is just a pipe dream.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mr wieland, both you and mr corbett have taken the trouble to come here and say that this is a transparent and consensual process. actually, it's not that. it is not, and the best demonstration of this is that it has been discussed for two years and this is the first time that the subject has been discussed in plenary. and, ladies and gentlemen, it would not even be, because only yesterday, on our proposal, an amendment to the agenda was made which allows discussion of this matter. do you think it's a sign of transparency not to discuss a matter of this magnitude in plenary? secondly, if this is such a consensus-building matter, why did we come to the vote in plenary with more than four hundred and sixty amendments? is it not usual for such consensus-building topics to be tabled in plenary with four hundred and sixty amendments?
mr president, what has been prepared over the last two years with regard to the functioning of this parliament takes the form of a coup. a coup that is intended to severely limit the individual initiative of members, the initiative of the smaller political groups and to concentrate even more power in the large political groups. it is not just a question of limiting the number of questions which members can put, thereby reducing the power of scrutiny over other institutions, of reducing the number of resolutions, of reducing the possibility of tabled amendments in committee or of eliminating written statements. that's bad enough, but there's more: the aim is to limit and establish fast-track legislative procedures, which limit the involvement of members and make it more difficult for them to be subject to public scrutiny. the aim is to create conditions for the general absence of a record of the individual voting direction of members, making it difficult to request nominal votes, which is essential for effective scrutiny of the work of elected representatives. it's like saying, you know what you're doing here and you want to hide it. less democracy, less pluralism, less transparency - that is what they want to impose. (the speaker accepts to answer two 'blue card' questions, tabled pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. mr max, each of you will judge your own work, but i can assure you that if you look at the questions we have put and the speeches made here...
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. as i said before, each one will know his work. the questions we ask and the interventions we make here reveal a deep connection with those in our countries who follow the work we do here - a deep connection with their problems, their aspirations and their concerns about what is decided here. what you are doing is preventing this possibility of intervention, whether through written questions, written statements or speeches. if you don't want to do it, you're free not to. but don't stop those who want to do it from doing it. i am not a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, but this is a matter which concerns us all and concerns us all. i was able to speak during the committee debate, tabled more than 50 amendments to what you have been discussing. if the rules you want to adopt were in force, it would be impossible for a member who is not a member of this committee to take part in this debate. you think that's good? are you comfortable with this imposition? well, from our point of view here, in this group, no one feels comfortable, and that's why we appeal, it's still time, still go in time, stop to reflect and suspend this process.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would also like to thank mr corbett and the committee on constitutional affairs for their enormous work on this file. from my previous work, i fully understand its complexity, and i would therefore highlight the need for practical solutions. just to give you an example from my own experience, some of you will probably remember that i had to take over, rather abruptly, the health portfolio. a few months later, the former president of the commission had to take over mine because i was on electoral leave. after i came back from the elections, i assumed the portfolio of viviane reding, who became a member of the european parliament. these were very real situations which occur in political life and which we have to be able to resolve promptly. in response to the remarks made by mr wieland: the commission was indeed participating in the work of the afco committee as observers, and we have signalled the commission’s interest in being properly consulted in accordance with the framework agreement. nevertheless, the commission stands ready to work with the european parliament on practical ways to implement the provisions of this important reform in respect of our respective institutional prerogatives. the commission will issue a written statement in the minutes of their votes in the event that the european parliament decides to proceed with its vote on the corbett report.
winner of the sakharov prize (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from kurdish into english). – mr president, president of the european parliament, distinguished guests, members of the european parliament, i would like to thank all of you for this very valuable prize and i feel that this prize is a prize for every woman and girl that has been sexually enslaved by daesh and for every yazidi woman that has been a victim of daesh and for everybody around the world that has been a victim of terrorism, everybody, all and every one of them, each and every one of them deserves this prize. i am a yazidi girl. my real age is 18 years old. i loved school very, very much when i was little and my father decided to increase my age by a year so that i would be able to go to school. and when daesh attacked my village i was 15 years old. they killed all the men in the village, including my brother, my father, relatives, young and old. and then they took us to another place and they separated us between older and younger women. they killed the older women and then they divided the younger girls up and we were then traded on the slave trade market. i myself was sold four times by daesh and every single time i was sold i tried to escape. they tortured me, they beat me and they insulted me and captured me again. and one of the individuals made explosive devices and bombs and forced me to help him, forced me to make these bombs. the last person who bought me was an iraqi doctor called doctor eslam. he was the director of the houwaja hospital. he used to torture me. he used to torture all the yazidi women and he would even rape girls who were only nine or ten years old. together with a friend of mine called kathrin and a nine year old girl, all of us were raped by dr eslam. the three of us did actually manage to escape but before we actually managed to arrive to safety kathrin accidentally walked over a landmine and it exploded and the last thing i heard was her death screams and this was awful, absolutely awful and it was the worst thing that i have ever heard. when i managed to pick myself up i knew that i would not be able to ever see again because the whole of my body was burnt, my body was burning and i did not think that i would actually be able to open my eyes ever again. and then i was taken to germany and i was helped to travel from iraq to germany and i was helped, i was treated and i am now able to see through one eye. i can see now again and i would like to thank god for the possibility that i can see now, that i can be a voice to the victims. and the sakharov prize gives me great strength. and this is why i have taken a decision to become a voice for the voiceless. the yazidis have been victims of extremism, of violence and terrorism, they have lost their lives but i very much ask you and urge you to promise me, to promise us, that never again, never again will you allow these kinds of things to happen. that you will listen to us and see that justice will be done so that the criminals can be brought to justice and held accountable. it has been two-and-a half-years now since the tragedy that affected the yazidi people and there are still more than 3 500 children and women held by daesh as slaves and every day they die a thousand times over again. the bones in the yazidi mass graves that remain untouched in the area of singhar, and the yazidi people, have no value in iraq, whether dead or alive. our village, ladies and gentlemen, has been a neighbour to arab cities for hundreds of years and when people visited us, when an arab or a muslim visited us, they would not eat meat in our homes because this was prohibited under their religion. they were not allowed to eat this meat. and my father would tell our muslim guests that they should slaughter the animal themselves so that they would then be able to eat halal meat when they visited us. when islamic state arrived and attacked us then it was our neighbours who actually attacked us first of all, before them. and they killed our men and they enslaved our women. as a result of this we have lost the social order in our own society and we have lost trust with these countries because they do not treat us as yazidis as equal to other citizens. so today we need europe so that we can go back to our country, so that we can build up our country again and so that we can experience peace again in our society. these criminals must be brought to justice, they must be held to account. the yazidis and the christians need international protection and they, both children and women that have been victims of daesh, need some kind of psychological rehabilitation. we need programmes for that and they need to be resettled. and ladies and gentlemen i would like to thank you very much for this prize. i stand here before you and i would like to accept this prize on behalf of all the women and all the girls who are still in the camps in kurdistan, who are living in those camps where the conditions are absolutely appalling and i very much hope that you will all help us. thank you very much. (the house accorded the speaker a heartfelt standing ovation)
winner of the sakharov prize (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from arabic into english). – mr president, esteemed members of parliament, as i stand before you today, my heart is full of happiness, because you decided to stand by a yazidi woman and the yazidi community in the midst of a genocide. i am happy because not only did you stand by us as a community but you stood by millions of women and children in iraq, syria and in conflict zones where they face blind terrorism. receiving the sakharov prize today is a great honour for us. daesh wanted, by enslaving us, to take our honour, but they lost their honour, and here you have given us this honour. daesh and the extremists came on 3 august to erase the yazidis from existence and they gave us one option: death or islam. there is no doubt daesh committed mass genocide. this genocide did not only consist of killings, but it also sought to enslave women in a systematic manner and to take the children away. daesh wanted to break our will to live. they started by killing the disabled and the elders and the women that they did not desire for themselves. then they destroyed places of worship and infrastructure so that we wouldn’t return. daesh and other global radical groups do not want anyone to have a life. they target all those who stand against their ideology, including millions of muslims. terrorism and radicalism are the enemies of mankind. i was a girl in a big family. i was the closest to my mother among my sisters. i learned from my mother the meaning of goodness and mercy, and what it means to challenge poverty. i learned from my small community that when we pray every evening we pray for all the peoples of the world before we pray for ourselves. i learned from my religion that god is tolerant and noble and that the difference between religions and cultures is a difference chosen by the creation, and it ought to be respected as such. daesh took my mother, who believed in the essence of humanity, along with 86 yazidi women in soulagh. they killed them all because they did not hold any value in the human sex trade. today, my community has disintegrated under the weight of genocide. half a million people do not know where their future is leading them. will we return to our lands? how will we return to our lands under the same conditions that led to the genocide? should we emigrate? this is what some 75 000 yazidis did. they mostly emigrated to germany, and i thank germany with all my heart for taking in my community, and i also thank germany also for taking in 1 000 yazidi women to provide them with medical and psychological care. half a million yazidis remain in iraq and they are the last members of this community present in the middle east. they are the few who remain after thousands, or perhaps millions, of yazidis were exterminated throughout history. the harsh conditions forced them to emigrate from turkey and syria, especially under the ottoman empire. we look up to europe as a symbol of humanity, and europe is indeed confirming today that it is such a symbol. europe should remain a model for the world and a model for the coexistence of peoples and cultures. the world today faces two of its biggest threats – the danger of terrorism as well as the dangers of reactions to terrorism. we must fight terrorism and we must dry its source. we must also work with the islamic community around the world so that they can change the teachings of islam and make the mosques a place for mercy, love and peace, free of extremism. we must prevent radicalism and racism everywhere. radicalism and extremism have become such dangers today. we must respect the individual, regardless of religion, creed, colour, sex or place of residence. the religious communities in iraq must be protected, and amongst them my community after this genocide. they can be protected through the establishment of a protected zone or zones under the aegis and protection of the international community in coordination with the iraqi government and the regional government of kurdistan. if the world is unable to protect us in our lands, i invite europe to open its doors to us to provide refuge to half a million yazidis from iraq, through an organised mass migration similar to what happened following the holocaust. for we cannot afford to remain the fuel of genocide and slavery. there must also be an accountability system to hold those who committed these crimes accountable both at [local] level and in the international community. there are still thousands of terrorists in iraq and syria and they must be brought to justice. thank you again for giving us this great award. from here, i would like to say to daesh, and all terrorists in the world, if you have chosen for yourself the path of no dignity, then europe has chosen for itself the path of humanity and honour. (the house accorded the speaker a loud and sustained standing ovation)
the fact that we are dealing with a report which has at present more than four hundred amendments shows that it is far from consensual and that this process is far from being sufficiently mature. it is a process which will have very profound political repercussions it is far from being a purely technical dossier and this advised another process of maturation and reflection. if we add to this the fact that in the last few days, in a few days, a public appeal which is available on the internet has already been signed by many hundreds of citizens, all this suggests that this process could be suspended for the time being and that there could be a more in-depth reflection on this report, that this reflection could continue in the specialised committee. we therefore appeal to your prerogative, mr president, to be able to return the report to committee, to make use of it and to be able to not vote on it here today, not to force the adoption of a report which is far from consensual and which will have profound political repercussions on the functioning of this parliament. as for the political considerations, we have already made them during the debate, but it would be wise to postpone this.
mr president, it is the president's prerogative to send this report to the committee. if you do not wish to make use of it, then we would ask the house to give its opinion.
‒ the draft euro-mediterranean agreement aims to create an association between the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and algeria, on the other. the objectives of this framework agreement are: to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the parties in order to allow the strengthening of their relations and cooperation in all areas they consider relevant; to develop trade and ensure the development of balanced economic and social relations between the parties and to define the conditions for a progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital; facilitate human contacts, in particular in the context of administrative procedures; to encourage the integration of the maghreb by promoting exchanges and cooperation in the region and between the maghreb and the european communities and their member states; promote cooperation in the economic, social, cultural and financial fields. respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights is an essential element of this agreement. for these reasons, i support this recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement.
‒ this recommendation aims to approve the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing a set of general principles governing the participation of algeria in eu programmes. algeria has been a member of the euro-mediterranean agreement since 2005 and has now applied to join eu programmes. the programmes set out in the protocol concern economic, financial and technical cooperation, which will enable algeria to obtain assistance, in particular financial assistance. algeria may participate in the programmes open to its participation and should contribute to the eu budget in those specific programmes. the specific terms of the protocol will be determined in a memorandum of understanding between the european commission and the algerian authorities. we have known reservations about the contents of the euro-mediterranean agreement, which opens the door to free trade agreements. but that is not what we are taking a position on in this report, which is nevertheless related to it. we have not blocked algeria's request, which is an expression of its sovereign will to join eu programmes. we reiterate, however, certain doubts and reservations about the financial assistance issues as referred to in the council decision.
‒ this recommendation aims to approve the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing a set of general principles governing the participation of algeria in union programmes. the programmes set out in the protocol concern economic, financial and technical cooperation, which will enable algeria to access assistance provided by the union through its programmes. algeria may participate in union programmes open to its participation and should contribute to the budget of the union in the specific programmes in which it participates. although it is part of the euro-mediterranean agreement which opens the way to free trade agreements, it is not an agreement of this nature which is involved in the conclusion of this framework agreement, but rather an instrument from which algeria can benefit in its development.
‒ the european neighbourhood policy aims to share the benefits of the european union with neighbouring countries, thereby contributing to the enhancement of stability, security and well-being within and outside the union. in this context, this text refers to the protocol negotiated between algeria and the eu, which aims at algeria's participation in certain community programmes. because the european union cannot close itself off from the world around it, and because algeria's geographical proximity to the european area justifies the creation of synergies with this state, i approve this report.
‒ as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries is one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and democratic transition in the european union's neighbourhood. this agreement with algeria is an example of this.
‒ the gradual opening of some european union (eu) programmes and agencies to the participation of countries in the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is one of the many measures promoted by the eu in support of reform, modernisation and democratic transition processes in its neighbouring regions. in 2007, the european council instructed the european commission to negotiate agreements with the eu's neighbouring countries, of which algeria was a part. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, contains general principles for the participation of algeria in eu programmes, which require the adoption of financial and technical rules for its integration. these programmes will establish economic, financial and technical cooperation measures with a view to facilitating assistance, particularly financial assistance, to algeria. i voted in favour of this report approving the protocol between the eu and algeria, taking into account that all the legal and regulatory criteria inherent in this decision are met.
‒ this recommendation sets out a set of general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. algeria has been a member of the eu mediterranean agreement since 2005 and has now asked the european union to join eu programmes. the programmes set out in the protocol concern economic, financial and technical cooperation, which will enable algeria to access assistance and in particular financial assistance to be provided by the union through its programmes. algeria may participate in union programmes open to its participation and should contribute to the budget of the union in the specific programmes in which algeria will participate. the specific terms of the protocol will be determined in a memorandum of understanding between the european commission and the algerian authorities. it is a request from algeria. while there are still doubts about the nature and implications of these agreements, the sovereign will of algeria and its government prevails above all.
the proposal provides for new rules for deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic, including a general ban on trawl fishing below 800 metres and a system for protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems in areas where fishing is still permitted under certain conditions. the regulation also provides for special protection measures for vulnerable marine ecosystems applicable to operations with bottom fishing gear below 400 metres depth; the limitation of directed deep-sea fishing to the area where this activity took place in 2009-2011 (the so-called 'fishing footprint'); the introduction of two types of fishing authorisation, one for vessels landing more than 8% of deep-sea species in each fishing trip and at least 10 tonnes in the calendar year concerned, and the other for vessels catching these species as by-catch.
‒ this is a complex dossier, the discussion of which has been going on for more than three years. the compromise finally reached is reasonable in terms of the objectives pursued and the solutions suggested, which was not the case with the european commission's initial proposal. the regulation provides for the eu to freeze its 'fishing' footprint. the fishing depth limit is 800 metres in order to safeguard deep-sea ecosystems. vessels fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their operations and move at least five nautical miles from the fishing zone concerned. the regulation provides for improvements in transparency, information provision and the collection of scientific data - aspects which we value. we argued that more should have been done in the area of international waters (ices zones), where fishing activities are carried out and which should have been subject to stricter regulation, thereby benefiting the resources in the waters of the azores and madeira - regions where specific measures have long been adopted to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, but which end up being affected by fishing activities carried out by european fleets in more northerly areas.
‒ this recommendation for second reading is aimed at the adoption of a report on the regulation of fisheries in eu waters in the north-east atlantic. one of the measures envisaged is the definition of the zone where deep-sea fishing activities will be authorised, with concrete sanctions being proposed for vessels that violate the provisions of the regulation. the proposed measures show a strong concern for the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems and biologically sensitive areas, while ensuring the sustainability of the ecosystem. i voted yes.
in writing. this is a complex dossier, the discussion of which has been going on for more than three years. the compromise finally reached is reasonable in terms of the objectives pursued and the solutions suggested, which was not the case with the european commission's initial proposal. the regulation provides for the eu to freeze its 'fishing' footprint. the fishing depth limit is 800 metres in order to safeguard deep-sea ecosystems. vessels fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their operations and move at least five nautical miles from the fishing zone concerned. the regulation provides for improvements in transparency, information provision and the collection of scientific data - aspects which we value. we argued that more should have been done in the area of international waters (ices zones), where fishing activities are carried out and which should have been subject to stricter regulation, thereby benefiting the resources in the waters of the azores and madeira - regions where specific measures have long been adopted to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, but which end up being affected by fishing activities carried out by european fleets in more northerly areas.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to freeze the european union's fishing footprint by defining the zone where deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed. parliament also secured specific sanctions for vessels infringing the deep-sea fisheries regulation by introducing new, stricter transparency rules, including the obligation to provide information to the public on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to record all catches (vulnerable fish and ecosystems).
‒ following the various trilogues which took place to reach a negotiating agreement on the adoption of a regulation laying down specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea species in the north-east atlantic and provisions applicable to fishing in international waters in this region, it was possible to adopt your position at first reading. the main measures included in the compromise are the freezing of fishing effort by defining the zone where deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed, the application of specific sanctions to vessels that violate the regulation and the establishment of a 800m limit to protect vulnerable ecosystems on the seabed. the adoption of these and other measures set out in the regulation will improve scientific knowledge of deep-sea species and their habitats, implement technical fisheries management measures and thus ensure a more sustainable exploitation of deep-sea species, while minimising the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the marine environment. in view of the above, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the regulation provides for improvements in transparency, information provision and the collection of scientific data - which we value. the regulation provides for the eu to freeze its 'fishing' footprint. the fishing depth limit is 800 metres in order to safeguard deep-sea ecosystems. vessels fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres will have to stop their operations and move at least five nautical miles from the fishing zone concerned. we argued that more should have been done in the area of international waters (ices zones), where fishing activities are carried out and where stricter regulation was needed, thereby benefiting the resources in the waters of the azores and madeira - regions where specific measures have long been adopted to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, but which are ultimately affected by fishing activities carried out by european fleets in more northern areas.
mr president, one of the founding principles of the european union is equality between all citizens. this means that all the votes of all citizens are equal, they are worth exactly the same and, consequently, the members elected by them have the same rights and are also equal within this house. i repeat, they should all have the same rights. that, mr president, is democracy. however, this report is a total disregard for democracy in the sense i have just described: it is the shameless legalization of the worst kind of backstage politics, in all the worst ways of this backstage politics. i never thought that the european parliament was the only european institution directly elected by the citizens of europe to help to close the democratic gap. don't talk about a democratic deficit, they just legitimized it. i voted against it because i'm not an accomplice.
‒ the european parliament has regularly revised its rules of procedure, often following the adoption of new treaties which have strengthened the institution's powers. the proposal provides parliament with a better 'modus operandi', clarifies the rules of procedure, increases transparency and protects the ep from disruption by political elements intent on sabotaging its work.
‒ in the face of the deep and persistent crisis in which the eu finds itself, the reaction of the main forces that have determined its course - the right and social democracy - is to strengthen instruments of an undemocratic nature. this is another example. these amendments, taken together, severely limit the power of intervention of members and smaller political groups, further increasing the power of the larger groups. the introduction of amendments to reports and opinions, written questions to other institutions, resolutions, explanations of vote, participation in specialised committees - all this is severely limited. written declarations - an instrument which has allowed important struggles to be expressed (two recent examples: the renegotiation of debts or the re-establishment of milk quotas) - are abolished. instruments of democratic control over the work of parliament and members are weakened or eliminated, in particular by imposing accelerated procedures and reducing the possibilities of requesting 'nominal votes'. it is worth saying that some are afraid or ashamed to take the positions they take here. the ps, psd and cds voted in favour. the cpp voted against and put forward many dozens of proposals that would strengthen democracy, pluralism and transparency in the european parliament's workings.
in writing. in the face of the deep and persistent crisis in which the eu finds itself, the reaction of the main forces that have determined its course right wing and social democracy is to strengthen instruments of an undemocratic nature. this is another example. these amendments, taken together, severely limit the power of intervention of members and smaller political groups, further increasing the power of the larger groups. the submission of amendments to reports and opinions, written questions to other institutions, resolutions, explanations of vote and participation in specialised committees - all this is severely restricted. written declarations, which have been the instrument of major struggles (two recent examples: the renegotiation of debts and the resumption of milk quotas), are abolished. instruments of democratic control over the work of parliament and members are weakened or eliminated, in particular by imposing accelerated procedures and reducing the possibilities of requesting 'nominal votes'. it is worth saying that some are afraid or ashamed to take the positions they take here. the ps, psd and cds voted in favour. the cpp voted against and put forward many dozens of proposals that would strengthen democracy, pluralism and transparency in the european parliament's workings.
‒ the revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure is an ongoing work. the group of the european socialists is generally satisfied with the measures proposed in this agreement, which are aimed at greater efficiency and transparency.
‒ over time, there have been several revisions to the rules of procedure, often linked to the adoption of new treaties. this review is mainly for internal reasons, with the aim of bringing greater operationality, clarity and transparency to the internal rules of operation, with the exception of the cases of the amendments resulting from the 2016 interinstitutional agreement on the better regulation programme and the creation of new bodies in the area of the banking union. the working party set up in this context was able to reach agreement on a number of issues, mainly technical, legal and linguistic. as regards the substantive amendments, i would stress the new rules for maintaining agreements at first and second readings, the introduction of topical and urgent debate on topical and urgent subjects and the introduction of new rules/procedures on transparency. on the question of the efficiency and effectiveness of parliament's work, i would like to highlight as positive the measures concerning voting, the motions for resolutions and the amendments i have endorsed for the introduction of two new types of written questions to the commission/council, in order to give them greater political weight and thus obtain better-informed answers and consequently an improvement in the quality of parliament's work and debate.
‒ these amendments, taken together, severely limit the power of intervention of members and smaller political groups, further increasing the power of the larger groups. the introduction of amendments to reports and opinions, written questions to other institutions, resolutions, explanations of vote, participation in specialised committees - all this is severely limited. written declarations - an instrument which has allowed important struggles to be expressed (two recent examples: the renegotiation of debts or the re-establishment of milk quotas) - are abolished. instruments of democratic control over the work of parliament and members are weakened or eliminated, in particular by imposing accelerated procedures and reducing the possibilities of requesting 'nominal votes'. it is worth saying that some are afraid or ashamed to take the positions they take here. the pcp voted against, unlike the psd, ps and cds, and put forward many dozens of proposals that would strengthen democracy, pluralism and transparency in the european parliament's workings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the corbett report because i agree with the proposals put forward to improve the european parliament's rules of procedure. i would stress that the report seeks to align the ep's rules of procedure with the 'better regulation' work programme and to strengthen the links of institutional cooperation between the three institutions of the union: parliament, the council and the commission. i believe that the package of rules presented will serve to make the european parliament an even more transparent, efficient, open and responsive institution to its citizens.
‒ this annual report is a crucial exercise for the european parliament, especially at a time - i would say - of crisis. the year 2015 was particularly difficult with regard to fundamental rights: threats to the rule of law, terrorist attacks on security and freedom of expression, as well as difficulties in respecting the right to asylum. this report provides an overall assessment of the human rights situation in the union and identifies the impact of the measures taken. unlike in previous years, the diagnosis is based on reality, the proposals are consistent with the position of this parliament and the fundamental rights have not been used for political purposes. the picture presented is not new, but it reinforces the feeling of apprehension. but above all it must reinforce the urgency of union action.
‒ the european union is a community based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. rule of law which is the backbone of european liberal democracy and one of the founding principles of the eu, deriving from the common constitutional traditions of the member states. at least 3,771 people died or were reported missing in 2015 while trying to reach safety in europe, bringing the total number of dead and missing to more than 30 000 in the last two decades, and terrorist acts represent one of the most serious violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. i would remind you that human dignity is the inviolable basis of all fundamental rights, that it must not be subject to any kind of exploitation and that it must be respected and protected in all eu initiatives, condemning all forms of discrimination and violence in the eu against all human beings, as they constitute a direct violation of human dignity.
‒ we welcome the recommendations in the field of freedoms, the rights of refugees and migrants, freedom of movement, the right to privacy, the right to information, non-discrimination, equality between men and women, the rights of the child, the rights of persons with disabilities and the defence of social rights, among others, which we support and call for. but well-meaning recommendations are not enough. concrete political measures must be taken to create the real and material conditions for their effective implementation. the strengthening and expansion of public services; the right to health, education and culture; the right to employment and employment with rights; respect for the sovereignty of peoples, non-interference, international law and the un charter are some of the urgent and necessary measures which have no place in this report. on the contrary, beyond the empty evocation of the infamous 'fundamental rights in the european union', the path indicated, explicitly or implicitly, is that of strengthening restrictive and limiting measures of freedoms, it is the narrow, repressive and protective vision of the ideal of democracy. the usual narrow and instrumental conception of human rights prevails.
‒ this report is about fundamental rights in the eu, which should be understood as rights inherent in all human beings, valid for all peoples and at all times. they are therefore inviolable, timeless and universal rights, which must always be protected and respected. although this report does not cover all the situations that should be taken into account, it proposes a number of positive measures to protect and safeguard fundamental rights in the eu, in particular in migration/asylum situations, gender equality and violence against women, corruption, discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, etc. i voted yes.
‒ we welcome the recommendations in the field of freedoms, the rights of refugees and migrants, freedom of movement, the right to privacy, the right to information, non-discrimination, equality between men and women, the rights of the child, the rights of persons with disabilities and the defence of social rights, among others, which we support. recommendations which, however, omit the real causes of the problems mentioned, on the one hand, and, on the other, as in the case of the humanitarian refugee crisis, suppress the degrading reality that the european union has imposed on tens of thousands of human beings. the strengthening and extension of public services, such as access to health care, access to education, access to information, the creation and enjoyment of universal and quality culture, the right to employment and employment with rights, are some of the urgent and necessary measures which have no place in this report. on the other hand, it continues to defend the 'rule of law' as a tool for interfering with sovereign states, imposing the model outlined in the treaties on each country, leaving no room for the implementation of its own development models, in a demonstration that this is not possible in the vest of strength that is the eu. we voted against it.
‒ the union is a community based on respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities. in particular, the rule of law is the backbone of european liberal democracy and one of the founding principles of the union, stemming from the constitutional traditions of the member states. at the same time, human dignity - man as a value in himself - is the inviolable basis of all fundamental rights, which must not be subject to any kind of exploitation and which must be respected and protected in all eu initiatives. the report puts the right emphasis on the degree of compliance with the catalogue of fundamental rights enshrined in the european union, and provides an accurate and satisfactory picture of the situation regarding respect for fundamental rights in the current year and in the european universe. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ mr president, in recent years we have seen a resurgence of fundamental rights in some countries of the union. this is why this diagnosis is important, but only if it implies effective measures in the attempt to counteract this state of affairs, especially as it relates to the rule of law, women's rights, lgbti people and migration.
‒ the charter of fundamental rights is an integral part of the european treaties and the legislation of the member states (with the exception of the derogations granted to poland, the united kingdom and the czech republic). however, breaches of its principles continued in 2015, as stated in this report, which i voted in favour of. the rule of law is the backbone of european democracy and a prerequisite for the protection of fundamental rights, and the union's 'pact' on these matters should therefore include country-specific recommendations to facilitate the process of its implementation. freedom of expression, the social inclusion of migrants and refugees, human trafficking, child poverty and exclusion, discrimination against minorities or gender inequalities are some of the violations identified in the report for which the eu needs to adopt effective solutions in order to welcome joint solutions in their prevention and combating. member states need to ensure that their legal systems comply with established european and international standards in order to ensure integration policies and effective measures against incitement to fear, hatred, radicalisation and extremism. the promotion of european values and the exchange of good practice are also essential.
‒ this annual report on human rights and democracy in the world (2015) and the eu's policy on the matter takes stock of the european union's work in defending and promoting human rights by the european union. the european union has used human rights in particular this year, as in other years, to justify external interference and interventions in sovereign countries which have subsequently caused problems of respect for and violation of human rights. although it is causing instability in the world, it does not engage in self-criticism. what moral value does the european union have when it does not make a self-criticism of the human rights that are constantly violated within the borders of its member states in this report? it speaks of the plight of refugees but says nothing about the causes of the plight and the disastrous balance sheet of european refugee policy. of course there are positive aspects in the report, for example the reference to the demand for the closure of guantanamo and some issues relating to the rights of women, disabled people, children, issues relating to the death penalty. however, this cannot make us accept the hypocrisy of the eu and its subjective and superficial approach to human rights.
‒ i voted in favour of the nagy report for agreeing with the assessment of the situation of fundamental rights in the eu and for sharing the proposals to improve the situation of these rights in the future. i stress that fundamental rights are universal, indivisible and always complementary, and a fair balance must be struck between the rights of everyone in a diverse society. in this context, i would remind you that in its relations with the rest of the world, the union must contribute to the protection of fundamental rights. finally, i would stress the condemnation of any and all forms of discrimination or violence on grounds of gender, age, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) are characterised by their dual intrinsic value: they play a key role in preserving and promoting europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, reinforce a sense of belonging to european and regional identity, contribute to the transmission of knowledge and values and preserve europe's cultural and intangible heritage for present and future generations. it is therefore strategically important to support innovative and research-oriented kics. to realise the full potential of the sector, concerted action is needed at national, regional and local level, but also at eu level, and this requires: gathering reliable statistics and data on the sector; stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship in the cultural and creative sector; improving access to finance and developing skills, including entrepreneurial skills. the ccis play a key role in the reindustrialisation of europe, are a growth engine and are strategically positioned to unleash positive innovation effects in other sectors such as tourism, retail and digital technologies. the eu should take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact of the creative sectors across europe by promoting their culture. i therefore support this report.
‒ cultural and creative industries are industries based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent with the potential to generate wealth and employment through the creation of value from intellectual property. to realise the full potential of the sector, therefore, concerted action is needed at national, regional and local level, but also at eu level. gathering reliable statistics and data on the basis of a comprehensive definition in order to raise awareness of the characteristics and needs of the sector, monitoring the evolution of the sector in order to create solutions for purpose-appropriate ccis, stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship in the cultural and creative sector by facilitating cooperation with other sectors and policies (crossings), and improving access to finance by supporting new business models are some of the measures advocated, which i agree with.
‒ the main thrust of this report is based on views that we do not share. there are aspects which we do not disagree with, although they must be put into perspective in the overall context of the report. the report proposes a definition of the cultural and creative industries (ccis) as being based on cultural, creative, individual values, skills and talent, capable of creating wealth and employment through the exploitation of intellectual property. architecture, archives and libraries, handicrafts, audiovisual (including cinema, television, video games and multimedia), cultural heritage, design, creative-oriented luxury industries and fashion industry, festivals, music, performing arts, books and publishing, radio and visual arts. in essence, all areas of cultural activity that have been commodified, and areas of commodity production that are now being considered for "cultural" status. it is enough to look at our country and imagine the consequences that would have, in an already degraded cultural framework, the classification of heritage, archives and libraries, and the arts in general, in the universe of the cultural industries, alongside fashion, jewellery, festivals and video games, competing with them in the creation of wealth and employment through the valorization of intellectual property. it would be the consecration of a commercialised conception of culture which is in itself a reason for rejecting this report.
in writing. the main thrust of this report is based on views which we do not share. there are aspects which we do not disagree with, although they must be put into perspective in the overall context of the report. the report proposes a definition of the cultural and creative industries (ccis) as being based on cultural, creative, individual values, skills and talent, capable of creating wealth and employment through the exploitation of intellectual property. architecture, archives and libraries, handicrafts, audiovisual (including cinema, television, video games and multimedia), cultural heritage, design, creative-oriented luxury industries and fashion industry, festivals, music, performing arts, books and publishing, radio and visual arts. in essence, all areas of cultural activity that have been commodified and areas of commodity production that are now being considered for 'cultural' status. it is enough to look at our country and imagine the consequences that would have, in an already degraded cultural framework, the classification of heritage, archives and libraries, and the arts in general, in the universe of the cultural industries, alongside fashion, jewellery, festivals and video games, competing with them in the creation of wealth and employment through the valorization of intellectual property. this would be the consecration of a commercialised conception of culture, which is in itself a reason for rejecting this report.
‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) are at the heart of a dual system, made up of large groups of internationally competitive innovative smes and startups, whose benefits for the economy and for job creation are today undeniable. however, they often have more difficulty in accessing markets and financing. it is important to note that in the european area, ccis are responsible for the creation of more than 12 million full-time jobs, representing 7.5% of the union's workforce. it should also be noted that almost 39% of the union's gdp is generated by them. this report calls on the member states to improve the investment environment and to expand the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises and smes in the cultural and creative sectors through new and innovative financing schemes such as microcredit, repayable contributions, crowdfunding, venture capital financing, start-up capital and venture capital. i therefore support this report.
‒ this report recognises the cultural and creative industries (ccis), traditionally based on cultural values and creativity, as a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable growth, supporting cultural heritage and promoting innovation. the report focuses on a number of measures to realise the full potential of the sector through a concrete definition of ccis. it highlights the importance of education and training, its ability to generate value from intellectual property and proposes solutions to facilitate access to eu funding and funds. the s&ds introduced a new chapter on the status of workers in the cultural and creative sectors, calling on the member states to develop or implement a legal and institutional framework for artistic and creative activity in the areas of contracts, social security, health insurance, direct and indirect taxation and european compliance with standards. as regards financing, emphasis is placed on new forms of financing such as micro-credit or crowdfunding and the role of the commission and the member states in promoting and improving the regulatory framework.
‒ cultural and creative industries (ccis) are based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent with the potential to generate wealth and employment through the creation of value from intellectual property. this report summarises the cultural and economic potential of the sector and indicates the pillars on which the european industrial policy for ccis should be based. the rapporteurs considered that concerted action at european, national, regional and local level was needed to realise the potential of the sector. identifying the characteristics and needs of the sector, monitoring its development, stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship, facilitating cooperation and synergies with other sectors and policies, improving access to finance, supporting new business models, using existing financial instruments at european level, developing skills and addressing skills shortages are some of the measures listed by the rapporteurs, with which i agree. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ccis are essential in the 'reindustrialisation' of europe, as a strategic growth engine to boost innovation in other sectors. the eu must therefore promote the impact of this sector through policies that defend europe's most unique asset: its culture.
‒ the development of the so-called cultural and creative industries, with the usual commercial logic, points to the fact that they are not a factor in promoting cultural and linguistic diversity, but, on the contrary, a factor in cultural homogenization, in the reduction and dilution of cultural and linguistic particularities and specificities. this 'european identity' will at best be the identity of a certain conception of 'europe', which has nothing to do with the diversity and the broad dialogue that the best european cultural tradition has established with other cultures. it is significant that we are talking here about 'european' and 'regional' identity, but not about national identities, which are an inescapable factor of european identity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the views expressed here about the place of culture in society and of cultural industries in culture are reductive and unacceptable. in some cases, they seem to be tailored to the interests of the big companies in the audiovisual and fashion industries.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the draft budget. i would like to stress as a starting point the proposal for a definition of the cultural and creative industries put forward by the european parliament, which should serve as a basis for future policies in this field. among other calls, i would highlight the request to the commission to address the precarious contractual situation of the cultural and creative industries by ensuring that fundamental social and labour standards are respected. the commission is also invited to take appropriate measures to reduce disparities and ensure that authors, creators, performers and rightholders receive fair remuneration for their works.
‒ the eastern partnership, launched by the prague declaration (2009), is one of the main instruments of the european neighbourhood policy and pursues objectives of respect for international law and the values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. in this context, the area of cooperation for gender equality and the defence of women's rights is promising, in line with the riga declaration (2015). i welcome the fact that the principle of gender equality is enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of the six partner countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus, but i would remind you of the way ahead in terms of women's participation in politics (only 14% of ministers and 16% of members), in business (10% in employers' organisations and 15% in trade unions) and in pay justice (disparities between 24% and 50%). i share the concern about the regrettable phenomenon of violence against women, in particular domestic violence. its eradication is a civilization imperative. i stress the urgency of cooperation in combating trafficking in human beings (mostly women), given that these countries are used as a source or transit point for this crime. i therefore support this report.
‒ women continue to be extremely absent from political power structures, both at the executive and parliamentary levels, mainly due to discriminatory practices. women represent on average 14% of ministers and 16% of members. in the economic field, despite the fact that women are generally more qualified than men, they represent 10% of the members of the social bodies of employers' organizations and 15% of the members of trade unions. the gender pay gap is generally considerable, but there are significant discrepancies between the eastern partnership countries (between 24% and 50%), while horizontal and vertical segregation of the labour market is very marked. combating violence against women is a challenge shared by the eu and its eastern neighbours. statistics on reported cases show that between 7% and 25% of women have been victims of domestic violence, but most cases remain unreported. the report highlights the obstacles to women's empowerment and how greater equality between men and women can contribute to the achievement of the eastern partnership and enp objectives.
in writing. the report states that equality between men and women is enshrined in the constitutions of the countries that make up the so-called eastern partnership (eu member states, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia and the republic of moldova) and in their legal systems. all these countries have ratified most of the relevant international conventions in this field. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services. the report calls for the fight against discrimination to be stepped up and for existing legislation to be enforced. advocates the role of education - nursery, pre-school, primary, secondary and university education - accessible to all; stresses the need to set targets for the elimination of child labour; stresses the need to combat gender-based domestic violence - sexual harassment, forced surrogacy, trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation, prostitution; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of women and girls seeking asylum. among other things, we support and value it. but the report also contains less positive aspects, some omissions and aspects with which we disagree. it is noted that nothing is said about the situation in ukraine, the coup that the eu supported and the forces of an avowedly fascist character that have taken over the government of that country and have caused it to regress for decades, also in this area.
‒ we support many of the concerns raised in the report, particularly the urgent need to overcome inequalities between men and women. we believe, however, that the report falls far short of analysing the causes of these inequalities and the ways in which they can be overcome, particularly as regards the need to break with right-wing and exploitative policies. among other things, compulsory quota mechanisms are being proposed to overcome the gap in women's political participation, a mechanism which we reject. the situation in ukraine is mentioned, without mentioning the eu's responsibilities in the establishment of a fascist regime. the report does not escape the usual interventionist approach which so well characterizes the european parliament. this justifies the exacerbation of the european neighbourhood policy and its role in supporting and financing initiatives which naturally aim to contribute to political change, of course, under the ideological matrix of the eu, but also the use of enp for reforms in the public administration and the principles and policies of the states.
‒ stabilising the neighbourhood is one of the main objectives of the european union's external policy and, in particular, of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). women play a key role in this. in view of the principle of differentiation of the enp, it is important to emphasise that women's rights, as well as equality between persons of different sexes, are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of the various eastern partnership countries. unfortunately, there is still a great deal of social discrimination in this area. these stereotypes not only prevent women from being more involved in the labour market and in political life, but also maintain the social acceptance of the phenomenon of undeclared domestic violence. statistics on reported cases show that between 7% and 25% of women (depending on the country) have been victims of domestic violence, but most cases remain unreported. i have to say that i voted in favour of this report because it reflects the issues raised above.
in writing. ‒ mr president, although the situation of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries (armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus) has improved and they have committed themselves to ensuring equality between men and women, inequality persists. the socialist group succeeded in improving the report by introducing amendments relating to: lgbti rights, sexual and reproductive rights, the need for greater participation of women in economic decision-making and trade unions, access to micro-credit, the need to combat stereotypes, support for the equal sharing of unpaid work between men and women in care and domestic work, the fight against forced marriage and the fight against domestic violence, to name just a few.
‒ stabilising the neighbourhood is one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy (enp). in order to ensure security, peace, stability and common prosperity, gender equality plays a crucial role in achieving this objective and should be mainstreamed in all relevant policies. the eastern partnership emerged in 2009 with the prague declaration as a joint initiative between the eu and six partner countries from eastern europe and the south caucasus, based on a commitment to respect the principles of international law and the core values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as well as gender equality. however, discrimination continues to exist and creates barriers to women's emancipation. the report calls for greater participation of women in peace negotiations and political transition processes as a key link for their emancipation and social and political participation. the riga declaration states that enhanced cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership will benefit efforts to achieve gender equality and women's rights, which is why i supported and voted in favour of this report.
‒ the eastern partnership was launched in 2009, together with the prague declaration. it is a joint initiative between the eu, the member states and armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova, and is based on commitments to the principles of international law and democracy. the riga declaration also considers gender equality as a new area of cooperation. the report states that equality between men and women is enshrined in the constitutions of these countries and in their legal systems; all these countries have ratified most international conventions. despite this, serious violations of women's rights still occur in these countries. women's rights know no bounds. however, these rights cannot be used to legitimize external interventions to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gabriel report by endorsing the proposals to improve the situation of women in the western partnership countries. it should be underlined that women's rights and gender equality are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of the six eastern partnership countries: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. however, and despite this, social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes persist and prevent women from being more involved in the labour market and in political decision-making processes. i therefore support the call for equal access to power and representation of women at all levels of governance and i stress the call for the exchange of good practice between the eu and its partners on promoting women's political participation.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a diagnosis of the lives of men and women, children and the elderly, of real people who have been persecuted, humiliated, wounded, drowned and killed - people who needed protection and were left to fend for themselves. people like us, or rather, less fortunate than us, who have been and are victims of other men, groups, organizations and governments. this report is a symptom of the worst of humanity, but it also shows us the evolution of the most basic of what we have: the advance of our rationality, which in turn shows the possibility of a more dignified world. i could list here some of the worst examples of human rights violations, both inside and outside. but what is important to discuss here today is the centrality of human rights in the european union's foreign policy. therefore, commissioner, there is an urgent need for the effective implementation of the eu strategic framework and the new action plan for human rights and democracy. we must send a clear signal, showing that the european union's guidelines on human rights are a fight against all forms of discrimination. we believe in religious freedom, gender equality, protection of the most vulnerable groups and respect for others. we also need a better and more coordinated way of receiving migrants, and to do this we need to create legal instruments for asylum seekers. this is a hope that focuses on the recognition of the other and his freedom. this is what it means to be europe.
mr president, the annual report reiterates parliament’s call for the eu institutions and member states to place human rights at the centre of our relations with all third countries, including strategic partners. but parliament continues to be bluntly disregarded, and not just in syria and iraq, as lamiya and nadia today pointed out. recent evidence of this is the european council’s silence and the commission’s perfunctory criticism over the recent arrest of professor merera gudina, a prominent oromo opposition leader, who is being tortured in ethiopia and continues to be denied access to a lawyer. his crime was to speak at a public hearing hosted by me in this parliament on the situation in ethiopia with exiled oromo athlete, feyisa lilesa, and professor berhanu nega, said to be a terrorist by the real terrorist, the ethiopian government. the external action service and the commission have yet to join the european parliament’s president in demanding the immediate release of professor merera gudina. the eu cannot be credible about human rights and the rule of law when it prepares to further finance, via the migration compact, the undemocratic regime in ethiopia, which is already africa’s top recipient of our development aid – a country under a state of emergency where thousands of peaceful protesters have been massacred, assassinated or languish in jails crowded with journalists and other prisoners of conscience. a country from which thousands have to flee as refugees and migrants – 88 000 this year alone – into war-ravaged yemen according to unhcr. how many ethiopian citizens will have to die, and how close will ethiopia have to come to civil war to end the eu’s complicity with this brutal and callous dictatorship?
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the quality of this report and by deploring the morally miserable and intellectually primitive way in which the extremist forces represented in this parliament approach the question of human rights, as has been very evident throughout this debate. this report rigorously highlights the main problems facing the world in the field of human rights. unfortunately, these are suffering from worrying setbacks in several regions and the european union must redouble its efforts to counteract these same setbacks. it is true that some progress has been made, for example in increasingly making the european union's trade agreements with third countries conditional on respect for human rights. i am referring, for example, to the application of the generalised system of trade preferences and the multiplication of impact studies on the european union's external investments. the new action plan for human rights and democracy has very positive aspects and the instrument for democracy and human rights continues to prove to be fundamental, but it is only tentative progress. war and terrorism, the situation of migrants and refugees, human trafficking, the criminalisation of fundamental freedoms, the persecution of minorities, the repression of human rights defenders, the contempt for indigenous peoples and the disregard for women's rights all constitute a highly dangerous scenario and are therefore almost always interlinked phenomena.
mr president, the european union is at a decisive moment in its history and not only in the economic and social spheres, but also in the field of common defence and security, where there are old and new challenges, it must make an urgent choice between reacting or resigning. because if the european union has lost influence in the world, it is also because it has not been able to assert itself as a guarantor of security in its geographical area and of peace and stability in its neighbourhood. this report correctly identifies the main cause of this failure, which is a disjointed and fragmented response to common threats and risks. the diagnosis is not new. the european union has always been confronted with this insufficiency, but we must not forget that the main purpose behind its creation was the need to guarantee peace on a continent ravaged by war. it is therefore in the spirit of the european project that the european union should once and for all assume the role of a power capable of preventing, deterring and protecting. in this age of hybrid and cross-border conflicts and threats, securing peace and security in europe means securing peace and security outside walls. but it is not enough to simply act as a mediator. it is true that it has had some successes, as in the case of the dialogue between serbia and kosovo and the nuclear agreement with iran, but in the face of the tragedy in syria, in the face of the situation in libya and the sahel, we see that this approach is clearly insufficient and that, as this report points out, the development of european defence capabilities, with the corresponding increase in investment, has become urgent. this could lead to a permanent self-defence structure and, if necessary, to a permanent european union headquarters for civil and military missions and operations in the framework of the common security and defence policy, provided that it is in conjunction with nato structures.
mr president, commissioner, the trade agreement, the negotiations of which were concluded in 2010, has been in force between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and peru and colombia, on the other, since march and august 2013 respectively, and has proved mutually beneficial for both parties. it is now intended that ecuador, as a member country of the same andean community, should also be an integral part of this agreement, which bolivia may also join. however, adding to its economic and social vulnerability, the country was hit by an earthquake last april. i am, however, in favour of the accession of this country to the trade agreement between the european union and the andean community, not for reasons of circumstance or as a response to natural disasters, but because this agreement will enable the country to continue its path of economic, social, labour and environmental growth and development in a more sustained way and geared to the real interests of its citizens, while at the same time intensifying its relations with our continent, which thus has the possibility of strengthening its political, economic and financial weight in this part of the world with which we have strong historical, cultural and diplomatic relations. however, it should be borne in mind that ecuador is the world's largest exporter of bananas and that its accession to the agreement could have a significant impact on community producers in the outermost regions of europe. i therefore consider it essential that, in parallel, the amendments to regulations 19 and 20/2013 on the application to ecuador of the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for the import of bananas into the european territory, agreed today, be adopted swiftly.
madam president, as has been well said, volatility is a complex process with many causes. however, we must not confuse these causes, otherwise we are using the wrong instruments to combat this volatility. fever can be caused by a virus or a bacterium. treatment to be effective always implies a correct diagnosis. in this particular case, i fear that the randomness of the climate is being deliberately mixed with financial speculation and price manipulation by the big multinationals and the big retailers. to try to blame climate change as the main cause of increasing price volatility is to try to impose or accentuate an increasingly market-oriented reform of the cap and further aggravate the causes of this instability. the stability of farmers is not at stake here, of course. what is at stake here is the definitive abandonment of a logic of direct support for income - yes, stable - by a logic of income insurance, copying the american model. price volatility is tackled with public regulatory instruments rather than financial instruments.
madam president, commissioner, the report is strategic in that it points to a range of possible ways of dealing with the volatility of agricultural prices at a time when it is clear that we have insufficient means of dealing with it. the crisis in the dairy sector which we have seen over the last two and a half years, to which the commissioner refers here, is proof of this. if we do not strengthen the means, we will seriously jeopardise the sustainability of agricultural activity in europe, especially in areas where it contributes most to the fixing of the population, as is the case in the azores. here, the impact of agricultural crises can be amplified by the ultraperipheral nature of the region, including increased production costs, and the weight of agriculture in the local economy. we therefore call for specific indicators for the outermost regions to be taken into account in order to trigger measures in the event of a crisis in the agricultural sector, in order to guarantee a sustainable level of income for farmers in these regions.
madam president, europe is at a crossroads; we have citizens calling for stronger solutions when it comes to economic, social and security fronts, and we have not only populist movements but nationalistic movements arguing that the best way to protect citizens is just to go back to national borders. this is a total mistake and a total illusion. we need to have much better european solutions, and this is the responsibility of the next meeting of the european council. we approve the idea of moving forward european defence capacity and bringing about a real european border; but we also must deliver on a real asylum system with relocation and resettlement of refugees. otherwise, this is a total shame. we agree that we need to have a new phase of the european fund for strategic investment and we need to have new life for the youth guarantee, but let me tell you: this is not enough to address the problem of jobs we have in europe. we need to have an industrial policy in europe, we need to have an agenda to complete the economic and monetary union. otherwise, this is not a real solution; and more than that, just jobs is not enough. we need to have decent jobs. that is why the european pillar of social rights is a basis which is coming up in the european parliament, and the council should build on that, so we are waiting for better solutions on the social front also.
madam president, i would like to begin by pointing out that next year will be a very unstable and uncertain year for the european union. it is therefore essential that the council and the commission, but in particular the council, should be able to maintain some of the stable policies that were already in place. the first was on external borders and the external and coastguard, and here we need to give a huge boost, because it is clear that we are going to have a bigger refugee crisis, and here i am accompanying my colleague mariya gabriel in all the prevention policy that we have to do in north africa and, in particular, also in the middle east. this is a point. a second point which i consider to be fundamental has to do with the economic, financial and banking question of the union. i think it is essential at this point to complete the banking union and, even before that, it is essential that the members of the council and the commission, even if outside their sphere of competence, even if only as, say, major political actors, contribute to the financial and banking stabilisation of the whole union. because if we do not do that, we will have a problem of such a magnitude that all the others, which are much more distressing from a humanitarian point of view and from the union's values, will be at risk. i therefore ask for the utmost urgency on this matter.
madam president, aleppo is being massacred, putin and assad are in a state of ecstasy. the european council is incapable of acting, so what credibility does it have? the european union fails because it fails. in ukraine, which has been attacked and occupied by russia, and in syria, iraq, yemen, libya, palestine, where member states not only do not coordinate but also compete in arms sales and other sordid deals with regimes that wage proxy wars, exploiting terrorist groups such as the saudi, qatari and turkish ones, i am not exhaustive. no wonder putin, erdogan, soon trump, are fond of blackmailing a backward, anti-integration, intergovernmental europe, the backbone of a german government, without strategy, that may want to appease, but actually feeds xenophobic populisms. from the incomplete euro, which sows division and inequality, to non-harmonised taxation, which distorts the internal market and exploits corruption and organised crime, to fortress europe, which delivers migrants and refugees to smuggling networks and radicalizes its own young people by recruiting them for the terrorist hydra: this is not the european union of peace, human rights, solidarity and progress. this intergovernmental europe does not protect us or defend us: it is destroying itself, putting our security and global security at risk.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission has been working on a very clear strategy since the beginning. this strategy was not just theory, but had focused on specific delivery. for this strategy to succeed, all actors need to play their part, in particular the member states. the support of this house has been more than helpful. when everyone takes up their responsibilities, we have tangible results. one example, which has been mentioned on many occasions, is the european border and coast guard. tomorrow, the european council will give further meaning to and guidance on the european defence action plan. the european council will also address two foreign policy issues. first, it must ensure that the eu—ukraine association agreement is concluded. this is a matter of geopolitical responsibility. it is time to complete the work of this chamber and the ukraine’s rada when they simultaneously ratified the agreement. i would also like to congratulate the parliament for having completed negotiations on the visa suspension mechanism. visa-free status must now be granted to ukrainian and georgian citizens as quickly as possible. this is of major importance for the citizens of these countries and will be mutually beneficial for europe and the region. the european council will also discuss the war in syria. as has been said here, the situation in aleppo is grave. there are reports of slaughter and children trapped under collapsed buildings. i call on the warring parties to see through the fog of war at least for a moment – at least long enough to recall their humanity – and to allow civilians, women and children to leave that great city in safety. one of our next goals is to finalise the reform of the asylum package. i will come back to some of these issues later this afternoon, but i would like to say some words about turkey. we shall come back to turkey later. however, i want to express in this chamber our condolences for the terrible and horrendous terrorist attacks. this again shows that we have common challenges and proves that dialogue needs to continue in all fields for the benefit of both the european union and turkey. the eu-turkey statement is working and giving tangible results. we are committed to continue implementing it. on dublin ii, i must be very clear, because i think there has been a misinterpretation. the commission did not decide to send refugees or migrants back to greece. what we recommended to member states was a gradual return to the application of the rules with the necessary safeguards for the best interests of these people, but also for greece, which is under exceptional pressure. greece’s progress, despite the exceptional situation, has been recognised by the fact that we have proposed a gradual resumption as of mid—march 2017. this means only migrants who enter europe through greece after that date and might try to move irregularly towards other member states. but even then it will concern certain categories and will presuppose individual guarantees for the transfer of each migrant, which greece should be in position to provide. it goes without saying that the commission will constantly monitor the situation and update its recommendation if necessary. ideally, if everyone plays their role, the implementation of the eu—turkey segment should be accelerated, the relocation should be stabilised in larger numbers, and no migrant – or very few – should move irregularly on his own. yes, the revision of the dublin rules, based on a fair distribution mechanism, is the priority of this commission, as it is for you in parliament. i have listened to everything you have said. what is important is that right now, at a time of crisis and divisions, this house leads the way towards more unity and common european responses to common challenges. our responsibility is huge: not to allow populism and nationalism to destroy what we have built – not only for the sake of our past, our history, but for the sake of our future, our common future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, actually i do not know whether it makes sense to share with you the concluding remarks on behalf of the council, because if i look around, the members are obviously engaged in other activities; but i will be very short. first on brexit and the role of the eu institutions in negotiations once the united kingdom has invoked article 50. president schulz will have an opportunity to raise this issue tomorrow when he meets with the members of the european council. i am hopeful – let me stress this; this is extraordinary – that the european parliament will want to ensure its involvement in this matter in negotiations which fully correspond with the treaty provisions. i have three additional points of substance that i would like to make on behalf of our presidency on the issues that have been mentioned. (the president interrupted the speaker)okay, i will try once more. firstly, tdi was mentioned and one of the honourable members has referred to a blockade which allegedly exists in the council on tdi. we are working hard until the end of our presidency, and tomorrow morning – after many years of problems reaching an agreement on it – the council has agreed on tdis. now we are ready to start negotiations with the parliament. this is important. secondly, efsi was also mentioned. on this, the council agreed a general approach on 6 december and is ready to start negotiations and trilogues with the european parliament, while we take note that the parliament has postponed this until may 2017. lastly, the youth employment initiative is an extremely important area and the subject of deliberations tomorrow in the european council. i would like to recall that the slovak presidency was dealing with this issue within negotiations on the revision of multi-annual financial framework. i would like to recall that the council is proposing to allocate an additional eur 1.2 billion for the youth employment initiative until the end of 2020. this, by the way, is 20% more than the original proposal of the commission. those were the points of substance, and i would like to thank you for your attention. (applause)
in writing. the very precarious and degrading conditions of detention of refugees and migrants in the european union are worsening, leaving thousands of human beings at the mercy of the harsh winter and the elements. it is the fundamental rights agency itself that is pointing out the gross violations of human rights on european soil. these are consequences of the criminal eu-turkey agreement and the policy of externalizing borders. this year alone there have been 4,715 deaths in the mediterranean, the highest ever. at the same time, a review of eu legislation is underway that will further deepen the racist, xenophobic and security-related nature of its migration policies, harmonising and lowering standards of response, restricting access, periods and rights of asylum. they want to incorporate into legislation the criminal measures of the agreement, in contradiction with international law. in practice, they want to end the right of asylum in the eu. all this, while the security and militaristic escalation deepens. the increase in member states' 'defence' budgets to 2% of gdp, the increase in funding for military industry and research, the eu's assertion as the european military pillar of nato and the intentions to create the european army are just a few examples. the eu is inhuman and dangerous.
‒ poland has notified the commission of a substantial reform of its national restructuring legislation and has requested that the lists be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether the request of poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is adapted to the legal framework of the polish insolvency law at the time of its application. i agree with the aim of the proposal and its content in general terms. however, i think it is important to make three technical amendments to the proposal. the first two reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland. the third amendment aligns the date of entry into force of the amending regulation with that of the main regulation.
‒ this report seeks to introduce minor technical amendments to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. the amendments are intended to take account of a restructuring reform carried out by poland, which has requested that the lists in annexes a and b to this regulation be amended accordingly. the annexes to the regulation may be amended only by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. as such, the european commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament with a view to ensuring the scope of the recast regulation, taking into account as such the legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation at the time of its application. the proposal from the european commission and the three amendments tabled are purely technical in nature and do not substantially alter the regulation. as regards the content of the regulation, we have expressed our concerns in due course about negative elements, such as the issue of workers' credit, because they are not granted credit privileges.
‒ this report seeks to introduce minor technical amendments to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. the amendments are intended to take account of a restructuring reform carried out by poland, which has requested that the lists in annexes a and b to this regulation be amended accordingly. the annexes to the regulation may be amended only by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission therefore submitted a proposal to the european parliament to ensure the scope of the recast regulation, taking into account the legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation at the time of its application. the commission proposal and the three amendments tabled are purely technical in nature and do not substantially alter the regulation. as regards the content of the regulation, we have expressed our concerns in due time about negative elements, such as the issue of workers' credit, because they are not granted credit privileges.
‒ the commission proposal is purely technical. it does not contain any substantial amendment to the regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which is purely technical in nature, in that it seeks to adapt the reform of national legislation carried out in poland to the regulatory framework for insolvency proceedings. in legal terms, the procedure for amending legislation in poland is only qualified as 'insolvency proceedings' if it is covered by the respective annex a of the regulation in question, and the respective annexes can only be amended by a regulation, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and the legal basis on which the original regulation was adopted. in view of this, the request of poland was analysed in the light of the legal and regulatory requirements, with the aim of ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation is adapted to the legal framework of the polish insolvency law, and that there is no substantial change to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to introduce minor technical amendments to regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings. the amendments are intended to take account of a restructuring reform carried out by poland, which has therefore requested the amendment of the lists in annexes a and b to this regulation accordingly. the commission proposal and the other three proposals are purely technical in nature and do not substantially alter the regulation. as regards the content of the regulation, we have expressed our concern about negative elements, such as the issue of workers' credit, basically because they are not granted credit privileges. the rules of procedure are not the subject of this vote, so we voted in favour.
the report approves the conclusion of the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textile products. the report of the last ilo monitoring mission noted that child labour had been almost completely eradicated during the cotton harvest. public authorities have taken various measures to eliminate child labor. the same conclusion was not reached with regard to forced labour. the efforts of the uzbek authorities should also be encouraged. i agree to the conclusion of the textile protocol with uzbekistan.
‒ this recommendation is aimed at the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. the nature and objectives of this agreement do not differ substantially from the free trade matrix which usually characterises agreements of this type. perhaps it is particularly noteworthy that the european parliament itself, which endorses the agreement, recognizes the existence of cases of forced labour in the country with which it is signing the agreement. it doesn't matter. the constraints arising from the low diversification of uzbekistan's economy, from the high dependence on, for example, 'cotton monoculture', are recognised. it doesn't matter. free trade will accentuate this trend, with the intensification of the exporting nature of production and the underestimation of the internal market. this is putting further pressure on european countries which still have a textile industry, such as portugal. this is nothing new: the big importers in central europe benefit, while the producers on the periphery suffer. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. this recommendation aims at the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. the nature and objectives of this agreement do not differ substantially from the free trade matrix which usually characterises agreements of this type. perhaps it is particularly noteworthy that the european parliament itself, which endorses the agreement, recognizes the existence of cases of forced labour in the country with which it is signing the agreement. it doesn't matter. the constraints arising from the low diversification of uzbekistan's economy, from the high dependence on, for example, 'cotton monoculture', are recognised. it doesn't matter. free trade will accentuate this trend, with the intensification of the exporting nature of production and the underestimation of the internal market. this is putting further pressure on european countries which still have a textile industry, such as portugal. this is nothing new: the big importers in central europe benefit, while the producers on the periphery suffer. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. the purpose of this recommendation is to approve the conclusion of the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, in order to extend the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textile products. the ratification of the protocol on textile products resulted in the inclusion of these products in the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded between uzbekistan and the european union in 1999. the provisions of the title 'trade in goods' of that agreement are therefore also applicable to textile products. one of parliament's concerns about this agreement was the respect for human rights in uzbekistan, in particular in relation to child labour and forced labour in the context of the annual cotton harvest. i welcome this report and welcome the cooperation established between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation to assess and conclude that the measures taken to eradicate child labour in the context of the annual cotton harvest in uzbekistan have had results.
‒ textile products are included in the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded between uzbekistan and the union in 1999. in december 2011, an interim report had already been adopted, conditional on the agreement being approved on the improvement of the human rights situation, in particular in relation to child labour and forced labour in the context of the cotton harvest. following the adoption of this report, a dialogue was established with uzbekistan, in the framework of which annual hearings were held, involving a number of stakeholders, including civil society, the uzbek authorities and european and international institutions. close cooperation has also been established between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation. parliament considered that, in the current context of dialogue and cooperation, the efforts of the uzbek authorities should be encouraged. however, if the uzbek authorities suspend the implementation of measures to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the european commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which allow for general or specific measures for breaches of human rights.
in writing. - we are faced with a report concerning a proposal to amend the partnership and cooperation agreement with the republic of uzbekistan concluded in 1999 to include the area of bilateral trade in textile products. this inclusion of textile products in the chapter 'trade in goods' provides, inter alia, for the reciprocal granting of most-favoured-nation status, freedom of transit and restrictions on imports, exports and goods in transit on grounds of public morality, public policy and public security. the european parliament has made this amendment to the agreement conditional on an improvement in the human rights situation in the country, particularly in relation to child labour and forced labour. according to a recent report by the international labour organisation (ilo), there have been clear improvements in this area, especially in the area of child labour, although there are still gaps in the area of forced labour. given that this worrying situation is still being closely monitored by the ilo and that uzbekistan has made considerable efforts to comply with and enforce labour standards and respect for human rights, i was in favour of adopting this report in order to approve the conclusion of the textile protocol with this country.
in writing. ‒ the report accompanying the recommendation, which proposes the conclusion of the agreement, contains, under the pretext of alleged aid, unacceptable and unequivocal considerations of the instruments which the european union uses to intervene on sovereign states, seeking to condition its social and economic policies, with the superb vanity of those who think they can teach lessons. we voted against it.
‒ the uzbek government authorised the ilo to monitor the cotton harvest and the ilo carried out a number of checks, initially focusing on child labour and later extending to forced labour and recruitment conditions. the latest monitoring campaign carried out by the ilo during the 2015 cotton harvest shows that the use of child labour for the cotton harvest has become rare, sporadic and socially unacceptable, but that there is a need to maintain continuous surveillance. the uzbek government has been working towards the eradication of forced labour in collaboration with the ilo, and some progress has been made. the eu should therefore take full advantage of the enlargement of the apc to ensure that the uzbek authorities engage in a transition process leading to better governance, strengthening the rule of law, democratic reforms and substantial improvement in the human rights situation.
‒ this report accompanies the recommendation endorsing the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. the report supports the conclusion of the agreement, which does not differ substantially from the free trade matrix which characterises agreements of this type. the report acknowledges the existence of forced labour in uzbekistan. for the majority of this parliament, it matters little. the constraints arising from the low diversification of uzbekistan's economy, from the high dependence on, for example, 'cotton monoculture', are recognised. it doesn't matter. free trade will accentuate this trend, with the intensification of the exporting nature of production and the underestimation of the internal market. this is putting further pressure on european countries which still have a textile industry, such as portugal. this is nothing new: the big importers in central europe benefit, while the producers on the periphery suffer. the report waves propaganda measures which it hopes will serve to obfuscate its real effects. it also challenges a usual rosary of interference and considerations about the way the state is organized in this country. we voted against it.
this report accompanies the recommendation endorsing the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. the report supports the conclusion of the agreement, which does not differ substantially from the free trade matrix which characterises agreements of this type. the report acknowledges the existence of forced labour in uzbekistan. for the majority of this parliament, it matters little. the constraints arising from the low diversification of uzbekistan's economy, from the high dependence on, for example, 'cotton monoculture', are recognised. it doesn't matter. free trade will accentuate this trend, with the intensification of the exporting nature of production and the underestimation of the internal market. this is putting further pressure on european countries which still have a textile industry, such as portugal. this is nothing new: the big importers in central europe benefit, while the producers on the periphery suffer. the report waves propaganda measures which it hopes will serve to obfuscate its real effects. it also challenges a usual rosary of interference and considerations about the way the state is organized in this country. we voted against it.
‒ textile products are included in the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded between uzbekistan and the union in 1999. in december 2011, an interim report had already been adopted, conditional on the agreement being approved on the improvement of the human rights situation, in particular in relation to child labour and forced labour in the context of the cotton harvest. following the adoption of this report, a dialogue was established with uzbekistan, in the framework of which annual hearings were held, involving a number of stakeholders, including civil society, the uzbek authorities and european and international institutions. close cooperation has also been established between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation. parliament considered that, in the current context of dialogue and cooperation, the efforts of the uzbek authorities should be encouraged. however, if the uzbek authorities suspend the implementation of measures to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the european commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which allow for general or specific measures for breaches of human rights.
‒ like the proposal to amend the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan, i also voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution on the same subject, as it sets out a set of proposals alongside the approval of the agreement, stressing on the one hand the importance for the european union of respect for human rights and the rule of law, labour conditions in accordance with international labour organisation (ilo) standards and respect for the environment, and on the other hand listing the reforms that the government of uzbekistan has carried out to improve labour standards and respect for human rights, which are sine qua non conditions for the establishment of trade agreements with the european union. i would like to highlight, among other things, the progress made in legislation, with the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of child labour, membership of the international trade union confederation and the introduction of structural reforms aimed at improving the working conditions of cotton harvesters and introducing greater mechanisation and budgetary transparency in the revenue from the cotton harvest. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report accompanying the recommendation, which proposes the conclusion of the agreement, contains, under the pretext of alleged aid, unacceptable and unequivocal considerations of the instruments which the european union uses to intervene on sovereign states, seeking to condition its social and economic policies, with the superb vanity of those who think they can give lessons. we voted against it.
‒ ecuador is currently experiencing a difficult situation due to the sharp drop in oil prices of more than 60%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the export of the product concerned to the union. on april 16, the country was struck by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake, which killed at least 673 people and injured 27,732. according to the ecuadorian government, the cost of reconstruction is expected to be us$3 billion, equivalent to about 3.0% of gdp. i support ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, because it will help peru to recover from a particularly difficult time.
‒ this recommendation report proposes to extend the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement to ecuador. the initial objective was to establish an agreement with the andean community countries. at this stage, the negotiations were eventually restricted to colombia and peru, as ecuador and bolivia resisted and eventually left, denouncing the eu's intentions to conclude a free trade agreement, which are opposed to a trade for development vision. under enormous and growing pressure and interference in the region, this free trade agreement, contrary to the economic and social policies which the ecuadorian government has been pursuing, is being used as a blackmail weapon aimed in particular at destabilizing the founding countries of mercosur. the neo-colonial 'free trade agreements' aim at the privatisation and exploitation of natural resources, the deregulation of the world of work and the conditioning of the economic and social policies of those countries. the major european industrial and service groups will benefit from this agreement. the export sectors of machinery, automobiles (and other transport equipment) and chemicals. with the services groups telecommunications, construction, distribution and financial services looking for the opportunity to colonize more of this market. we voted against it.
this recommendation report proposes to extend the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement to ecuador. the initial objective was to establish an agreement with the andean community countries. at this stage, the negotiations were eventually restricted to colombia and peru, as ecuador and bolivia resisted and eventually left, denouncing the eu's intentions to conclude a free trade agreement, which are opposed to a trade for development vision. under enormous and growing pressure and interference in the region, this free trade agreement, contrary to the economic and social policies which the ecuadorian government has been pursuing, is being used as a blackmail weapon aimed in particular at destabilizing the founding countries of mercosur. the neo-colonial 'free trade agreements' aim at the privatisation and exploitation of natural resources, the deregulation of the world of work and the conditioning of the economic and social policies of those countries. the major european industrial and service groups will benefit from this agreement. the export sectors of machinery, automobiles (and other transport equipment) and chemicals. with the services groups telecommunications, construction, distribution and financial services looking for the opportunity to colonize more of this market.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. it is an open agreement in the sense that article 329 of the trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession by other andean community countries. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru and its progressive and flexible application should constitute significant progress in the alliance with these countries, which are in full growth and have the same market sensitivity. this protocol will allow the eu to develop and improve its relations with the countries of south america. in fact, the inclusion of ecuador in the trade agreement creates a favourable environment for closer ties not only with ecuador but also between those andean countries. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement, in which it welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador and encourages the swift entry into force and full implementation of this agreement, considering that it will allow ecuador to pursue policies aimed at stimulating sustainable economic and social development in a difficult regional and international context. i would remind you that economically, ecuador is going through a difficult situation due to the sharp drop in oil prices of more than 60% (2015). in 2015, ecuador's total exports decreased by 29%, mainly due to a decline in oil exports of 50%.
‒ i voted in favour of this consent procedure, which is intended to take account of the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. the provisions of the trade agreement allow the accession of other andean community countries (ecuador and bolivia), and the aim is that once this process is completed, ecuador will be able to pursue its policies to stimulate economic, social, labour and environmental growth and development in a sustainable way. ecuador is the world's largest exporter of bananas and its accession to the agreement will have a significant impact on community producers, particularly in the outermost regions, such as the autonomous region of madeira in portugal. it is precisely for these reasons that i was very pleased with the conclusion of the trilogue on this very day and following the proposals made by this parliament (amending regulations 19 and 20/2013), in order to ensure more effective compensatory/stabilising mechanisms for the banana market and to avoid unnecessary risks of disruption in the european market, thus safeguarding the (relatively) precarious position of european producers in the outermost regions of portugal, spain and france.
‒ the initial objective of this process was to establish an agreement with the andean community countries. at this stage, the negotiations were eventually restricted to colombia and peru, as ecuador and bolivia resisted and eventually left, denouncing the eu's intentions to conclude a free trade agreement, which are opposed to a trade for development vision. this recommendation report proposes to extend to ecuador and to have the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, approved. under enormous pressure and interference in the region, this free trade agreement, contrary to the economic and social policies which the ecuadorian government has been pursuing, serves as a weapon of blackmail aimed in particular at destabilizing the founding countries of mercosur. the neo-colonial 'free trade agreements' aim at the privatisation and exploitation of natural resources, the deregulation of the world of work and the conditioning of the economic and social policies of those countries. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the scholz report which provides for the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. i would stress that the agreement will enable the parties to develop ever closer bilateral relations and will stimulate the deepening of economic and political integration in the andean region. the agreement provides for a gradual opening of the market in trade in goods, services, public procurement and investment, including the abolition of most customs duties. in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure a predictable and stable environment for investors and operators in the regions covered.
‒ this new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to each other by the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to the waters of each of the three countries outside the four-nautical-mile limit measured from the baselines. traditionally, fishermen do not operate in certain waters. kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples of this. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together for the same fish stocks in these waters since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of these countries have become member states does not alter the principle that the fishermen of these three countries should enjoy the historical rights to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. the eu's common fisheries policy establishes a system for managing fish stocks in the waters it covers, thereby supporting the historical rights of fishermen.
‒ this recommendation aims to update the agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden. this agreement dates from 1966, before denmark and sweden became members of the eu. the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fishing grounds do not know administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources. involving two eu member states and a third country, this agreement would not have to be the subject of any decision by the eu (european parliament and council) if, under the institutional framework provided by the lisbon treaty, the management of living marine resources had not become an exclusive competence of the eu. we voted in favour. we reiterate, however, our disagreement with the institutional framework mentioned above.
in writing. this recommendation aims to update the agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden. this agreement dates from 1966, before denmark and sweden became members of the eu. the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fishing grounds do not know administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources. involving two eu member states and a third country, this agreement would not have to be the subject of any decision by the eu (european parliament and council) if, under the institutional framework provided by the lisbon treaty, the management of living marine resources had not become an exclusive competence of the eu. we voted in favour. we reiterate, however, our disagreement with the institutional framework mentioned above.
in writing. the agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat entered into force on 7 august 1967. this agreement allowed the three countries reciprocal access to fishing activities up to four nautical miles calculated from their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. the 1966 agreement remained in force for an initial period of 35 years, until 2002, and was subsequently extended for two five-year periods, until 2012. in view of the evolution of international fisheries law, norway considered that the existing agreement was not in line with the current provisions of the law of the sea and called into question the control mechanism. following formal negotiations between norway and the commission, an understanding was reached in 2013 with the aim of establishing a replacement agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in those areas. i voted in favour of this report because the new agreement safeguards the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak, without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other states, while ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in these waters.
‒ this new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to each other by the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to the waters of each of the three countries outside the four-nautical-mile limit measured from the baselines. it guarantees the two member states and norway continued reciprocal access to their respective waters in the skagerrak and kattegat, while ensuring appropriate conservation and fisheries management measures in this area. it also allows for control measures in line with the principles of normal jurisdiction of a coastal state, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea. fishing in these waters predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and, subsequently, the exclusive economic zone. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together for the same fish stocks in these waters since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of these countries have become member states does not alter the principle that the fishermen of these three countries should enjoy the historical rights to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the conclusion of a new agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat, which is to replace the old agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on this subject. the new agreement, like the previous one, maintains the exclusive access granted to each other by the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to the waters of each of the three countries, beyond the four-nautical-mile limit. it also ensures continued reciprocal access to the waters of the three countries and appropriate conservation and management measures for fisheries in this area, and also allows for control measures in line with the principles of normal jurisdiction of a coastal state, as is already the case with fisheries in the north sea. it is basically a matter of common sense and balance, since the fishermen of these three countries fish in the same waters for certain fish stocks, in what is a procedure prior to the creation of the states, the recognition of territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone. the fact that two of them later became member states should not alter this tradition or the historical principle underlying it.
‒ the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fish stocks do not respect administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources.
‒ fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden have always fished together in the kattegat and skagerrak. the agreement defends the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak, without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other states, while ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in these waters. the commission shall submit to the parliament and the council, during the last year of the agreement's validity and before the opening of negotiations for its renewal, a comprehensive report on its implementation.
‒ this resolution is accompanied by the recommendation to update the agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden. this agreement dates from 1966, before denmark and sweden became members of the eu. the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fishing grounds do not know administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources. involving two eu member states and a third country, this agreement would not have to be the subject of any decision by the eu (european parliament and council) if, under the institutional framework provided by the lisbon treaty, the management of living marine resources had not become an exclusive competence of the eu. we voted in favour. we reiterate, however, our disagreement with the institutional framework mentioned above.
in writing. this resolution accompanies the recommendation to update the agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat between denmark, norway and sweden. this agreement dates from 1966, before denmark and sweden became members of the eu. the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fishing grounds do not know administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources. involving two eu member states and a third country, this agreement would not have to be the subject of any decision by the eu (european parliament and council) if, under the institutional framework provided by the lisbon treaty, the management of living marine resources had not become an exclusive competence of the eu. we voted in favour. we reiterate, however, our disagreement with the institutional framework mentioned above.
‒ this new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to each other by the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to the waters of each of the three countries outside the four-nautical-mile limit measured from the baselines. it guarantees the two member states and norway continued reciprocal access to their respective waters in the skagerrak and kattegat, while ensuring appropriate conservation and fisheries management measures in this area. it also allows for control measures in line with the principles of normal jurisdiction of a coastal state, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea. fishing in these waters predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and, subsequently, the exclusive economic zone. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together for the same fish stocks in these waters since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of these countries have become member states does not alter the principle that the fishermen of these three countries should enjoy the historical rights to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat.
‒ like the motion for a recommendation on this subject, i also support this non-legislative motion for a resolution, as it contains a set of suggestions concerning the historical rights of fishermen in these three countries, which must be preserved in order to allow them to continue fishing together in the kattegat and skagerrak fishing areas. to that end, it is essential to ensure that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in those waters, keeping stocks above levels that can achieve maximum sustainable yield. i also agree with the importance of the presentation of an evaluation report on the implementation of the agreement by the commission, which should also be responsible for ensuring that the fixing of customs duties on food and fishery products from the eu is not contrary to the principle of free trade.
‒ the update proposed by norway aims to bring the old agreement into line with the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, in particular in terms of control arrangements, or on maritime conservation and management issues. this agreement, with its updates, contributes to strengthening the historical rights of fishermen in the region, regardless of their nationality, considering that fish stocks do not respect administrative jurisdictions and that fishing activity depends on access to resources.
‒ within the framework of its mandate, europol may conclude agreements with third countries and other organisations to establish cooperation channels, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. in this context, it is for parliament, having regard to the agreement reached, to consent to its signature by europol. this is a given, a proof that all legal requirements have been met and that all safeguards for european citizens have been guaranteed. this agreement with georgia is of particular importance in the context of the fight against terrorism, given that it is increasingly a transit country for so-called 'foreign fighters'.
‒ this report concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes as well as on crime prevention methods, as well as support in certain criminal investigations. there also appears to be a clear need for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia, as it plays an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, especially as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups.
‒ europol is an agency of the european union which is part of a federalist vision of the european integration process, with the enforcement of the law as its main objective. a structure which, outside the member states, imposes itself on them and overrides their sovereignty and the autonomy of their own security forces. this is in contrast to the natural and desirable cooperation between states and their police and judicial authorities. this report proposes the adoption of an 'operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia' which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes as well as on crime prevention methods, as well as support in certain criminal investigations. in addition to the more general objections concerning europol's role, in this case the geopolitical situation in georgia constitutes another front for confrontation and encirclement of the russian federation in a context of destabilisation and wars promoted by the us and the eu in the middle east, most recently in syria. we voted against it.
‒ europol is an agency of the european union which is part of the federalist deepening of the european integration process, with the main objective of enforcing the law. an infrastructure which, outside the member states, imposes itself and overrides them, in a clear position contrary to their sovereignty and the autonomy of their own security forces and the desirable cooperation between states. this report proposes the adoption of an 'operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia' which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes as well as on crime prevention methods, as well as support in certain criminal investigations. the geopolitical situation in georgia is another front for confrontation and encirclement of the russian federation, in a context of destabilization and wars promoted by the us and the eu in the middle east, with particular emphasis on syria. we voted against it.
‒ this document concerns the approval of the proposal for an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. in accordance with article 23 (2) of the council decision on europol, the council is to approve the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third states after consulting the european parliament. such agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. according to europol, georgia is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, especially as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters. the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement with the state will thus make it possible to facilitate and strengthen the fight against terrorism and other heinous forms of crime. i therefore approve this report.
‒ this agreement concerns the approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes as well as on crime prevention methods, as well as support in certain criminal investigations. on the operational side, there appears to be a clear need for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. according to the agency, georgia is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, particularly as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups in georgia. in this context, the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would facilitate and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international.
‒ this report concerns the approval of the proposal for an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia. this agreement should provide for the exchange of information, including personal data, expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes, crime prevention methods, and provide for the provision of support for certain criminal investigations. europol believes that there is a clear need to deepen its cooperation with georgia, which it says is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, particularly as a transit country for so-called 'foreign fighters' and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups. the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement will thus make it possible to facilitate and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in accordance with article 23 (2) of the council decision on europol, the council is to approve the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third states or international organisations after consulting the european parliament. i have voted in favour of the report because i recognise the importance of the conclusion of this agreement.
‒ this report proposes the adoption of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation processes as well as on crime prevention methods, as well as support in certain criminal investigations. according to europol, 'georgia is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, especially as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups in georgia'. the geopolitical situation in georgia is another front for confrontation and encirclement of the russian federation, in a context of destabilization and wars promoted by the us and the eu in the middle east, with particular emphasis on syria. we voted against it.
‒ i support the report by mr esteban gonzález pons which will allow the mobilisation of eur 856 800 from the globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the community of valencia, spain, and eligible for egf contributions. the redundancies were caused by the decline in car production in spain, which led to a reduction in both the number of firms and the number of jobs, and by the closure of 62 out of a total of 187 firms in the automobile sector in the valencian community. through the use of this fund, which was set up to provide complementary support to workers due to major structural changes in world trade, it will be possible to support these workers through measures ranging from guidance/interpretation and facilitation of job search to support for business creation or personalised vocational retraining.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million. spain submitted a proposal to reintegrate into the market the workers made redundant by bosal s.a., which is active in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. the application concerns the dismissal of 250 workers and provides for the transfer of eur 856 000.
‒ this application concerns 250 workers made redundant in 29 companies in the economic sectors classified as 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers' in spain. the justification is the same as always: spain has lost market share over the last decade thanks to the trend of 'geographical transition of consumption associated with globalisation'. in addition, 'european industry was also affected by the decline in domestic demand due to the economic and financial crisis'. since 2008, due to the combined effect of these two factors in the automotive industry, many companies have closed down or severely reduced their activity, resulting in redundancies or reductions in working hours. spain has already approved 9 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers made redundant in the comunidad valenciana region since 2009. this is yet another vivid libel against capitalism, against european capitalist integration and the neoliberal policies it promotes. we support the mobilisation of support for the workers made redundant, but we continue to say that only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
this application concerns 250 workers made redundant in 29 companies in the economic sectors classified as 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers' in spain. the justification is the same as always: spain has lost market share over the last decade thanks to the trend of 'geographical transition of consumption associated with globalisation'. in addition, 'european industry was also affected by the decline in domestic demand due to the economic and financial crisis'. since 2008, due to the combined effect of these two factors in the automotive industry, many companies have closed down or severely reduced their activity, resulting in redundancies or reductions in working hours. spain has already approved 9 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers made redundant in the comunidad valenciana region since 2009. this is yet another vivid libel against capitalism, against european capitalist integration and the neoliberal policies it promotes. we support the mobilisation of support for the workers made redundant, but we continue to say that only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
‒ as a mechanism designed to provide support to workers affected by the effects of structural changes in world trade patterns, the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed for cases such as the present one. the application for the fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by bosal s.a. was submitted to the commission on 21 june 2016. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. in order to adapt production capacity to demand and reduce costs, the company has resorted to reduced working hours for all staff. however, these measures did not succeed and on 15 january 2015 the company declared bankruptcy. the dismissal of 250 employees of the company - a serious social consequence of the crisis referred to above - therefore justifies the mobilisation of the egf. in order to support the 250 european citizens who find themselves in this precarious situation and to ensure that they benefit from such relevant measures as access to counselling services and training aimed at re-entering the labour market, i am voting in favour of adopting the report.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain, following an application by that country, with the aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a., a manufacturer of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the valencia region. after examination of the application and in the light of the applicable legal and regulatory provisions, it has been concluded that the application fulfils the conditions for the award of this financial contribution from the egf of eur 856000 to support the 250 workers made redundant in the form of personalised services and grants and incentive measures under the legal provisions of the egf regulation.
‒ this application concerns 250 workers made redundant in 29 enterprises in the economic sectors. spain has lost a significant market share over the last decade and one of the main factors behind this trend is the geographical shift in consumption associated with globalisation, in particular the rapid growth in demand in the asian market, which is putting pressure on eu manufacturers, which are traditionally not well positioned in these markets. in addition, the european industry was also affected by the decline in domestic demand due to the economic and financial crisis, with a lower number of car registrations than in the years before the crisis. since 2008, due to the combined effect of these two factors on the car manufacturing industry, many companies in sagunto have closed down or severely reduced their activity, resulting in redundancies or reductions in working hours. we agree that this aid should be mobilised quickly, but we still maintain that only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to halt this path of social and economic disaster.
‒ i consider the current text of the regulation to be discriminatory, since it only offers the possibility of compensation to the 40 companies specified in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, keeping the regulation in force is not an option unless the list of railway undertakings is constantly updated. i also agree with the need for a transitional period for level crossing compensation because some member states still use this regulation as the basis for level crossing compensation.
‒ this proposal is part of the fourth eu railway package and aims to repeal regulation (ec) no 1192/69. this regulation concerns common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. it allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for charges that undertakings in other modes of transport do not have to bear, such as special payments in the event of accidents at work. this regulation was adopted before the process of liberalisation of the railway market and at a time when rail transport in europe was developing within a national framework and integrated undertakings were simultaneously providing transport services and managing the railway infrastructure. the process of destruction, deregulation and privatization of companies has been a disaster for the railway system. the aim: monopolistic concentration at eu level, without regard for passengers and the development strategy of each state. we have been in breach of regulation (ec) no 1192/69. we also recognise that this may be out of context and that it currently allows for the shifting of public funds to the privatised companies managing the railway system. but one thing is clear: the proposed repeal is not to stop liberalisation but to deepen it. we're against it.
in writing. this proposal is part of the fourth eu railway package and aims to repeal regulation (ec) no 1192/69. this regulation concerns common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. it allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for charges that undertakings in other modes of transport do not have to bear, such as special payments in the event of accidents at work. this regulation was adopted before the process of liberalisation of the railway market and at a time when rail transport in europe was developing within a national framework and integrated undertakings were simultaneously providing transport services and managing the railway infrastructure. the process of destruction, deregulation and privatization of companies has been a disaster for the railway system. the aim: monopolistic concentration at eu level, without regard for passengers and the development strategy of each state. we have been in breach of regulation (ec) no 1192/69. we also recognise that this may be out of context and that it currently allows for the shifting of public funds to the privatised companies managing the railway system. but one thing is clear: the proposed repeal is not to stop liberalisation but to deepen it. we're against it.
‒ this report is part of a set of three legislative proposals relating to the fourth railway package. in this case, the aim is to repeal regulation no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, the purpose of which was to promote a better balance between railway undertakings and other undertakings in other modes of transport as regards the payment of social and external costs. after the liberalisation of the railway market and after several railway packages, the regulation lost its original purpose, being at odds with the current legal context, which is to establish a discrimination between railway companies on the list of companies owned by the states and companies outside this list, which do not receive any kind of compensation. after six rounds of trilogues, an interinstitutional agreement was reached, proposing the repeal of the regulation, with the exception of the provisions on the standardisation of accounts relating to compensation paid for level crossings, which need a longer period of validity until the member states adapt their national legislation in this field. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. regulation (eec) no 1192/69 was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market and at a time when rail transport in europe was mainly developed within a national framework and integrated undertakings were simultaneously providing transport services and managing the railway infrastructure. the purpose of the regulation was therefore to put railway undertakings on an equal footing with undertakings in other modes of transport as regards the payment of social costs or externalities. moreover, the relationship between governments and mainly state-owned railway companies was not yet regulated by contractual agreements and there was a much more direct ownership link between the two parties. due to its original purpose, the regulation contains a list listing the formerly state-owned railway companies. this list has been adapted several times to take account of the accession of the new member states and currently contains 40 companies. the repeal of this regulation can only be interpreted as another way of liberalising the sector and further reducing the ability of the public authorities to intervene in this sector vital to the economy and society.
‒ the aim of the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to increase their operational efficiency. the commission proposal relates to the proposed amendments to directive 2012/34/eu establishing a single european railway area. after six rounds of trilogues, parliament reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016. the agreement reached includes, inter alia:the obligation for the competent authorities to define the specifications of public service obligations (psos) for public passenger transport;the setting of compensation will have to be done at a level that ensures the financial sustainability of the provision of the public passenger transport service;the compliance by public service operators with the applicable obligations in the field of social and labour law as defined in union legislation, national legislation or collective agreements in the exercise of psos;the obligation for public service operators and infrastructure managers to provide the competent authority with information that is essential for the award of future public service contracts (psos). i therefore support this recommendation.
‒ the new legislation, already agreed with national governments, provides for public tenders to become the rule for the award of public service contracts, with some exceptions. direct adjustment will continue to be possible where it leads to better quality of service or cost-effectiveness. the performance requirements will include the punctuality and frequency of the trains. the reform of the railway sector will facilitate the entry of new operators into the market and the provision of their services. member states may, however, limit the right of access of a new operator if the proposed service would compromise the economic equilibrium of an existing public service contract. the competent authorities will have to clearly define the specifications of public service obligations for public passenger transport and the scope of their application, including the geographical areas concerned.
‒ this proposal is part of the fourth eu railway package and focuses on amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007. the stated objective is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency, so as to improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport and develop the single european railway area. i speak well known. to achieve this objective, the commission proposed to introduce compulsory tendering for public service contracts in order to intensify competitive pressure on national railway markets. in other words, in conjunction with the proposal for a european railway area, it opens up national rail systems, which are already completely deregulated, to international competition. another step in the growing monopoly concentration in the sector. it is no less paradoxical that we talk about 'improving the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport' by using more liberalisation, when the statistics show that liberalisation has only contributed to the loss of attractiveness. in this respect it should be noted that since 1988 portugal has lost 43% of passengers per km (pk); in the same period, germany gained 24% and france 35%. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this recommendation is based on the idea of a single market in the railway sector, with the aim of increasing competition in the sector. however, this proposal does not take into account the social impacts that such market liberalisation may entail, since it calls into question the protection of the public transport network and the respect of the rights of its workers. i voted to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. this proposal is part of the fourth eu railway package and focuses on amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007. the stated objective is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and increase their operational efficiency, so as to improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport and develop the single european railway area. i speak well known. to achieve this objective, the commission proposed to introduce compulsory tendering for public service contracts in order to intensify competitive pressure on national railway markets. in other words, in conjunction with the proposal for a european railway area, it opens up national rail systems, which are already completely deregulated, to international competition. another step in the growing monopoly concentration in the sector. it is no less paradoxical that we talk about 'improving the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport' by using more liberalisation, when the statistics show that liberalisation has only contributed to the loss of attractiveness. in this respect it should be noted that since 1988 portugal has lost 43% of passengers per km (pk); in the same period, germany gained 24% and france 35%. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this legislative proposal is also part of the fourth railway package and aims to amend regulation no 1370/2007 with the aim of improving the quality of rail passenger services and enhancing their operational efficiency. achieving these objectives will make it possible to increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of this transport in the framework of the single european railway area. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the interinstitutional negotiations in this connection have led to an agreement containing specific elements concerning public service obligations and the financial compensation for them, as well as provisions on social and labour matters, the provision of information and other elements characterised by transparency, simplification and non-discrimination of procedures. as these are substantive changes which will bring benefits to the quality of rail transport services within the single european area we share, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
‒ the commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 has the general objective of improving the quality of rail passenger services and increasing operational efficiency. this is supposed to enhance the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport and to further develop the single european railway area. in practice, however, the commission has proposed the introduction of a competition requirement for public service contracts in order to intensify competitive pressure on national rail markets by pressing down on safety standards, fees and quality of service.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal to amend directive 2012/34/eu, also known as the governance directive, aims at:-opening up the market for national rail passenger services, with the aim of intensifying competitive pressure on national rail markets;-strengthening the governance of the infrastructure manager, with the aim of ensuring equal access to infrastructure. these amendments are intended to help increase the level of competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. the european parliament played a key role in reaching the overall agreement with the council, and succeeded in introducing the following improvements to the commission proposal: - the creation of safeguards to ensure the impartiality and independence of infrastructure managers;- the creation by the member states of a national framework for the assessment of conflicts of interest;- the creation of mechanisms for mandatory coordination between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings;- the strengthening of the powers of regulatory bodies. i therefore support this recommendation.
‒ the fourth railway package aims to increase the quality and supply of rail services in europe. according to european legislators, this should make rail travel more attractive than other modes of transport with a higher environmental impact. the commission will also assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. from 2023, competent authorities should award railway public service contracts by means of open competitions to all undertakings in the eu railway sector, except in specific cases. public service contracts awarded by direct award before the end of the transition period may continue to be in force until december 2033.
‒ this legislative proposal, also known as the governance directive, is part of the eu's fourth railway package and aims to: (a) open up the market for national rail passenger services, with the aim of intensifying competitive pressure on national rail markets. the rail freight and international passenger services have been opened to competition since 2007 and 2010 respectively, with the adoption of the previous railway packages. the result is known. the aim is to increase the efficiency of public funding of passenger transport services (mainly to private multinationals). (b) strengthen the governance of the infrastructure manager with the aim of ensuring equal access to infrastructure. it reads: also in this way, favour the multinationals. the creation of the 'single european railway area' has two components: the internationalisation of railway operation management; and the final axis of what remains of the relationship between operation and infrastructure, opening up new markets but reducing strategic integration. i mean, more of the same. the consequences: the degradation of services and infrastructure, the deregulation of the labour market and, at the same time, the increase in the fortunes of the large european companies that already dominate the railway in the european context - in the name of competition and transparency! we obviously voted against it.
‒ this recommendation promotes the idea of the full opening of the railway market, which underpins the increase in competition in the eu rail sector. the proposal does not show any concern for the fulfilment of other objectives which are essential for any legislative change. it is clear that throughout the text there is no reference to certain important objectives such as social and territorial cohesion, accessibility, the protection of working conditions and workers' rights. i voted to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. this legislative proposal, also known as the governance directive, is part of the eu's fourth railway package and aims to: (a) open up the market for national rail passenger services with the aim of intensifying competitive pressure on national rail markets. the rail freight and international passenger services have been opened to competition since 2007 and 2010 respectively, with the adoption of the previous railway packages. the result is known. the aim is to increase the efficiency of public funding of passenger transport services (mainly to private multinationals). (b) strengthen the governance of the infrastructure manager with the aim of ensuring equal access to infrastructure. it reads: also in this way, favour the multinationals. the creation of the 'single european railway area' has two components: the internationalisation of railway operation management; and the final axis of what remains of the relationship between operation and infrastructure, opening up new markets but reducing strategic integration. i mean, more of the same. the consequences: the degradation of services and infrastructure, the deregulation of the labour market and, at the same time, the increase in the fortunes of the large european companies that already dominate the railway in the european context - in the name of competition and transparency! we obviously voted against it.
‒ this is the third of three legislative proposals relating to the fourth railway package and concerns, in particular, the amendment of directive 2012/34/eu, also known as the governance directive, on the opening of the national market for rail passenger services and the governance of railway infrastructure. the aim of this amendment is primarily to promote competition in national railway markets and to strengthen the governance of infrastructure managers. these changes will not only lead to gains in terms of increased competition, but also to greater financial transparency and better and fairer conditions for business financing. after several trilogues and several interinstitutional contacts, it was possible to reach a balanced agreement, largely because of the role of the european parliament, which proved to be essential, and for that reason i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the deepening of the ongoing process of liberalisation in the railway sector is at stake. actually this process has nothing to do with the market. it is a process of monopolistic concentration, of an attack on national sovereignty, of the degradation of the public service and of the intensification of the exploitation of railway workers. it is scandalous that the call for greater centralization and coordination of the system is now being made after the total or partial destruction of the public railway system. it is a scandal to call on the state to invest in infrastructure or in guarantee schemes which feed private profit by socialising the costs. the so-called social safeguards may serve to facilitate the collaboration of social democracy in this process, but in practice they do not serve at all, as has been demonstrated in other sectors.
‒ the new rules cover more than 300 seaports in europe, including 13 in portugal. the legislation adopted aims, among other objectives, to increase transparency in the fees for port services and the use of port infrastructure, as well as the use made of public funding. these rules do not impose a specific model for the management of seaports and do not affect the competence of member states to provide non-economic services of general interest. different models of port management are possible, provided that the regime for the provision of port services and the common rules on financial transparency laid down in the regulation are respected. the port services covered by the regulation are refuelling, mooring, towing and the collection of waste generated on board ships and cargo waste. freight handling, passenger services and piloting are subject to financial transparency rules but exempt from the rules on the organisation of services.
‒ the conversation is not new, nor are the arguments original. under the guise of a miraculous modernisation of services and operations, the liberalisation and privatisation of yet another strategic sector of the economy is being pursued: the port sector. we have already seen the promise in other sectors: attracting investment, greater efficiency, better quality. we know what they mean, but they are denied by reality, without appeal or aggravation. it is true that this proposal falls far short of the european commission's initial liberalising ambitions. it reduces the degree of liberalization. a retreat forced by the struggle, by the resistance of the workers, first of all. but the truth is that despite this, the proposal does point the way. which they will try to achieve when they find themselves in a position to do so. a negative path and one that must be fought. it is funny how you express concern about the 'users' of ports. it is funny that while in other sectors users become customers, for example in public transport, here, where customers are large companies, we already talk about users. very enlightening. it is very clear what the point of view is here: that of big capital, of the big economic groups and of the big multinationals. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this report provides for regulation of the port sector in terms of market access rules and financial transparency for ports. the regulation calls for the sovereignty of each member state to comply with its national legislation and thus rejects the idea of liberalising this market sector. the legislative proposal advocates compulsory initial and/or continuing training for dockers, the protection of their labour and social rights, the fight against job insecurity, and the promotion of greater safety and better working conditions in ports. i voted yes.
in writing. the conversation is not new nor are the arguments original. under the guise of a miraculous modernisation of services and operations, the liberalisation and privatisation of yet another strategic sector of the economy is being pursued: the port sector. we have already seen the promise in other sectors: attracting investment, greater efficiency, better quality. we know what they mean, but they are denied by reality, without appeal or aggravation. it is true that this proposal falls far short of the european commission's initial liberalising ambitions. it reduces the degree of liberalization. a retreat forced by the struggle, by the resistance of the workers, first of all. but the truth is that despite this, the proposal does point the way. which they will try to achieve when they find themselves in a position to do so. a negative path and one that must be fought. it is funny how you express concern about the 'users' of ports. it is funny that while in other sectors users become customers, for example in public transport, here, where customers are large companies, we already talk about users. very enlightening. it is very clear what the point of view is here: that of big capital, of the big economic groups and of the big multinationals. we obviously voted against it.
‒ the european parliament has approved new rules on the provision of port services and financial transparency for ports covering six maritime infrastructures in mainland portugal (aveiro, lisbon, portimão, porto/leixões, setúbal and sines), with lisbon deciding on the ports of the azores and madeira. the legislation adopted today aims, among other things, to increase transparency in the charging of port services and the use of port infrastructure, as well as the use made of public funding. the port services covered by the regulation are refuelling, mooring, towing and the collection of waste generated on board ships and cargo waste. freight handling, passenger services and piloting are subject to financial transparency rules but exempt from the rules on the organisation of services. the agreed text provides that social and labour rules are not affected by the regulation and that port workers receive appropriate training on their working conditions. the report also guarantees the right to strike. the regulation also adopted financial transparency provisions to ensure fair competition and prevent price abuse, in particular where services are not subject to effective competition.
‒ this report is on a proposal for a regulation establishing a regulatory framework for access to port services and financial transparency in ports, in order to contribute to a more transparent, efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). the main objectives are to modernise port services and operations and to create conditions for attracting investment in order to counteract the reduced competitive pressure and possible market abuse in this segment. overall, i find this proposal very positive and i very much agree with the rapporteur's suggestions to contribute to more efficient, transparent and participatory port management and thus to provide greater legal certainty for the proper functioning of the ten-t network.
‒ under the guise of modernising services and operations, the liberalisation and privatisation of another strategic sector of the economy, the port sector, is being pursued. we have already seen the promise in other sectors: attracting investment, greater efficiency, better quality. we know what they mean, but they are denied by reality, without appeal or aggravation. this proposal falls far short of the european commission's initial ambitions. a retreat forced by the struggle, by the resistance of the workers. however, the proposal does point the way. a negative path and one that must be fought.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors (coa) operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the estonian auditor's post will soon expire, so a candidate has been proposed by the estonian government and then by the council. the proposed candidate is presented as having a long political experience. he was deputy chancellor at the ministry of justice; member of the board of the estonian privatization agency; later became prime minister of estonia; was minister of economy and communications until 2014 and is currently a member of the estonian parliament. during the interview, the candidate took a politically biased view of the functions he proposes to assume. at the end of the hearing, a number of serious doubts remained about what his position would be if he were to be confronted with situations that challenge his political positions and convictions. the appointment of the estonian candidate was adopted with the gue/ngl, some greens and efdd voting against. the candidate has shown himself to be an enthusiastic supporter of the privatisation of all public assets, which certainly calls into question his ability to be an objective taxpayer in analysing the expenditure of public funds on public or public/private projects.
in writing. the court of auditors (the 'court') operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the estonian auditor's post will soon expire, so a candidate has been proposed by the estonian government and then by the council. the proposed candidate is presented as having a long political experience. he was deputy chancellor at the ministry of justice; member of the board of the estonian privatization agency; later became prime minister of estonia; was minister of economy and communications until 2014 and is currently a member of the estonian parliament. during the interview, the candidate took a politically biased view of the functions he proposes to assume. at the end of the hearing, a number of serious doubts remained about what his position would be if he were to be confronted with situations that challenge his political positions and convictions. the appointment of the estonian candidate was adopted with the gue/ngl, some greens and efdd voting against. the candidate has shown himself to be an enthusiastic supporter of the privatisation of all public assets, which certainly calls into question his ability to be an objective taxpayer in analysing the expenditure of public funds on public or public/private projects.
‒ the parliament's committee on budgetary control has assessed the credentials of the estonian candidate, taking into account the requirements laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the hearing of the latter. parliament gave a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors, as the candidate has shown, at the hearing held by the committee on budgetary control, that he has the appropriate professional skills and experience to perform these duties. following the council's proposal, we have seen that the selection process was carried out in a transparent manner, so i have no objection to this appointment.
‒ the court of auditors (the 'court') functions as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the post of estonian auditor will soon expire, a candidate was proposed by the estonian government and then by the council. the appointment of the estonian candidate was adopted with the gue/ngl, some greens and efdd voting against. we voted against because there is a gender imbalance in the ect that needs to be addressed. furthermore, the candidate is drawn from the ranks of the conservative political parties in power, further skewing the political vision of this body. this candidate has shown himself to be an enthusiastic supporter of the privatisation of all public assets, which certainly calls into question his ability to be an objective taxpayer in analysing the spending of public funds on public or public/private projects.
‒ the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs), financed by the remaining assets of the former european coal and steel community (ecsc, whose founding treaty - 1951 - expired in 2002), supports research and development in the steel (72.8%) and coal (27.2%) sectors at an annual rate of around eur 50 million. i therefore believe that this financial flow should promote innovation in the exploitation of these resources (production, use and conservation), in ensuring environmental sustainability and in the safety of workers. i share the concern about the harmonisation of rules, processes and terminology with horizon 2020. the policy of supporting research in the european union must be coherent and initiatives must be complementary. i share the intention to clarify the rules on expert groups in order to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the commission's management of the rfcs. i would remind you that the commission has already decided on the establishment and functioning of expert groups (decision of 30 may 2016) and that the european parliament is preparing its position on this matter, so the regulation must be consistent. i therefore support this report.
‒ the eu has supported coal and steel research for more than 50 years. the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs) is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed independently of it. it provides annual funding of approximately eur 50 million for r&d and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors (with a distribution of 72,8% for steel and 27,2% for coal). it brings together industrial partners, smes, universities and leading research centres across the european union to develop knowledge and promote innovation in the sector. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951. when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make ecsc assets available to a research fund for coal and steel (rfcs). the programme is financed by the revenues generated by the remaining assets of the former ecsc and is managed by the european commission. the rfcs is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed independently of it. in any event, the main beneficiaries are known. it provides annual funding of approximately eur 50 million for r&d and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors (with a distribution of 72,8% for steel and 27,2% for coal). it brings together industrial partners, smes, universities and leading research centres (mainly from the major eu powers) to develop knowledge and promote innovation in the sector. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. the report proposes simplifying some rules and improving the transparency of the management of the rfcs. guidelines to which we are generally not opposed.
the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951. when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make ecsc assets available to a research fund for coal and steel (rfcs). the programme is financed by the revenues generated by the remaining assets of the former ecsc and is managed by the european commission. the rfcs is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed independently of it. in any event, the main beneficiaries are known. it provides annual funding of approximately eur 50 million for r&d and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors (with a distribution of 72,8% for steel and 27,2% for coal). it brings together industrial partners, smes, universities and leading research centres (mainly from the major eu powers) to develop knowledge and promote innovation in the sector. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors. the report proposes simplifying some rules and improving the transparency of the management of the rfcs. guidelines to which we are generally not opposed.
‒ coal and steel have been high on the european union's agenda for more than six decades, dating back to 1951, when the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed. when the treaty ceased to be in force in 2002, it was decided to make ecsc assets available to a research fund for coal and steel (rfcs). the programme is financed by the revenue generated by the remaining assets of the former ecsc and is managed by the commission. the commission now proposes amendments to clarify the characteristics of the experts appointed to participate in the advisory groups and technical groups established in accordance with the legal basis of the rfcs programme, in order to avoid any conflicts of interest. this is a significant step. i support this report.
‒ the eu has supported coal and steel research for more than 50 years, since the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed in 1951. when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make the ecsc assets available to a research fund for coal and steel, which was to be financed by the revenues generated by the remaining assets of the former ecsc and managed by the european commission (ec). the research fund is complementary to horizon 2020 and provides funding of approximately eur 50 million annually for innovation in the coal and steel sectors. the objective of this proposal is to amend the legal basis of the programme following the periodic evaluation of its management rules with a view to facilitating access to funding, through simplified rules and a harmonisation with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020 (with which stakeholders in the sectors are familiar), ensuring that the programme is managed by the ec with due transparency. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with it and i recognise the importance of harmonizing and simplifying the rules governing this programme.
‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed 50 years ago, in 1951. when the treaty expired in 2002, it was decided to make ecsc assets available to a research fund for coal and steel (rfcs). the programme is financed by the revenue generated by the remaining assets of the former ecsc and is managed by the commission. the rfcs is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed independently of it. the proposed amendments are designed to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and proportionate harmonisation with the rules of the overall horizon 2020 research programme and to ensure that the programme is managed by the commission with due transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the buzek report which facilitates access to funding through simplified rules for the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020. i would highlight the proposals to ensure that the programme is managed with due transparency and in accordance with the rules in force on expert groups. i regret only the rejection by the committee on industry of some amendments by the socialist group which would have strengthened the role of the fund in actions relevant to research in the field of coal and steel.
‒ fundamental rights play a key role not only in the internal sphere but also in europe's external relations. the european parliament is also calling for the union to be a beacon of hope for the world. with due distinction, as in the rest of the world, 2015 was a tough year for respect for human rights and democracy. among the many problems that still exist in the world, i must highlight - for their significance and impact - the persecution, violence and intolerance to which daesh is subjecting yazidis, christians and muslim minorities. the need for a long-term solution should not, however, prejudice more immediate support. the rapporteur rightly points out that this is why it has never been more essential to distinguish between migrants and refugees.
‒ the respect, promotion and protection of the indivisibility and universality of human rights are among the main objectives of the eu's foreign and security policy. the policy of defending human rights and democracy should be integrated into all eu policies with an external dimension, including development, migration, security, counter-terrorism, enlargement and trade policy, in particular through the application of human rights conditionality. i am concerned that the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide and that the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged.
‒ this annual report on human rights and democracy in the world (2015) and the eu's policy on the matter takes stock of the eu's work in defending and promoting human rights. the usual exercise of hypocrisy, of systematic double standards, in accordance with the geopolitical interests of the eu and its powers. the usual narrow and instrumental conception of democracy and human rights. in 2015, human rights were once again used by the eu to justify interference and meddling in sovereign countries. in 2015, the eu conveniently turned a blind eye to the gross human rights violations occurring within its borders, some of which it actively promoted, as inseparable from its policies. there is no shortage of words to link trade/market with human rights, defending the 'trade for all' policy as being able to bring human rights to the world, when it is known that there are many european companies that do precisely the opposite in various parts of the world. it's executable. the report denounces the eu's aggressive attitude, militarism, as reflected in the common security and defence policy, and praises it as a promoter and defender of human rights and democracy in third countries. it is the development of the theory of the 'responsibility to protect'. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this report looks at the situation of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, calling for a more objective and accessible approach to the general public. the report presents positive measures, in particular on the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, the fight against human trafficking networks, women's rights, the universal rejection of the death penalty, etc. however, the report also advocates the implementation of other measures which have not proved to be positive either for the member states or for third countries, such as the development of a common foreign and security policy based on the idea of the militarization of the european union. i abstained.
‒ this report is no different from those of previous years. it is characterised, in essence, by a manipulative and reductive view of human rights - political, social, economic and cultural - using them as a justification for interference and political pressure on third countries. the soft or omission stance with countries aligned with eu policies and strategy is noted as opposed to the approach to countries harshly criticized. criticism that is mostly due not to their practices but to their not being submissive to us imperialism and the eu. calling for the omission of the grotesque and systematic human rights violations that have been accumulating in various member states in the response to the humanitarian refugee crisis throughout 2015, either by the decision of each government itself or by the implementation of the criminal migration policies imposed by the eu, policies that feed and promote racism and xenophobia. the omission of very serious situations such as western sahara and palestine persists, and the aggression of morocco and israel against those peoples is covered up. not a word about the consequences of austerity policies and the resulting degradation of living conditions and human rights violations: poverty, social exclusion, hunger, loss of housing. we voted against it.
‒ the european union (eu) is committed to the implementation of its common foreign and security policy and all other external policies related to respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and the defence of human rights (hr) and fundamental freedoms. this report reports on the various forms of human rights violations (and/or attempted violations) worldwide. we are talking mainly about violations of the rule of law and the exercise of fundamental freedoms, such as restrictions on freedom of expression, persecution, intolerance, discrimination on grounds of belief, among other types of atrocities that deserve special attention when taking preventive measures against this type of crime. migration flows have captured the eu's attention - for their multiple causes, implications and involvement of human beings - whose dignity must above all be respected. the hr dialogues are an effective instrument for bilateral engagement and cooperation, as reflected in the hr and democracy action plan 2015-2019 as well as other defence measures, based on international standards. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to enforce and respect the universal principles of the conservation of wild birds.
in writing. ‒ what moral value does the european union have when it does not make a self-criticism of the human rights that are constantly violated within the borders of its member states in this report? it speaks of the plight of refugees but says nothing about the causes of the plight and the disastrous balance sheet of european refugee policy. of course there are positive aspects in the report, for example the reference to the demand for the closure of guantanamo and some issues relating to the rights of women, disabled people, children, issues relating to the death penalty. but this cannot make us accept the hypocrisy of the eu and its subjective and superficial approach to human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the weidenholzer report because i agree with the conclusions and proposals put forward in the field of human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter. i stress that in the area of migration, there is an urgent need for coherent and lasting human rights-based solutions, given the increasing number of human rights violations against refugees, irregular migrants and asylum seekers on their way to europe. i would also stress my support for the systematic introduction of human rights clauses in all international agreements concluded and to be concluded between the eu and third countries, in particular in trade and investment agreements.
‒ the challenges facing the european union in the field of defence (terrorism, hybrid threats, cybersecurity, organised crime or energy security) require an operational and effective common security and defence policy (csdp). i note the presentation of the annual report on the cfsp and the progressive increase in the political will for greater integration in defence, reflected in documents such as the global strategy for the cfsp. i share the view that external action should be based on three pillars: diplomacy, development and defence. i am in favour of using all the instruments of the lisbon treaty, in particular permanent structured cooperation, as a dynamic force for greater integration. i believe that member states should invest more in defence, both politically (by creating a permanent civilian and military headquarters) and financially (by increasing defence investment in line with the 2% of gdp target under nato). the implementation of a 'defence' training in the council of ministers or the creation of a defence semester should correspond to concrete actions and avoid the complexity of decision-making processes. i share a comprehensive approach to csdp, in line with the neighbourhood policy, cooperation or development support. i therefore support this report.
‒ the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cybersecurity and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change, and only the eu can respond effectively to the new challenges. the european union is currently surrounded by an arc of instability and these conflicts have serious and direct consequences for the well-being and security of european citizens. the current internal and external crisis therefore represents an opportunity for the union, provided it is used to improve its functioning and cooperation. reform is urgently needed to make the eu better, more democratic and able to meet citizens' expectations.
‒ another report that is no different from previous ones, continuing the militaristic, security and external interference policy that characterises eu action. the justification for this security drift is, of course, the supposed threats facing the eu, to the east by the russian federation and to the south by terrorism and islamic radicalism. the eu's responsibilities in escalating tensions to the east and in promoting so-called 'islamic radicalism', which has justified acts of aggression and interference in the middle east and north africa, are completely ignored. by cynically presenting the eu as a project of success and prosperity, it is burdening the federalist approach of militarism, further compromising the sovereignty of the member states. the report highlights the undemocratic character of the eu; advocates the strengthening of the defence budgets of the member states and the eu; the role of the eu as the european military pillar of nato; the reform of the un security council, seeking to ensure that it becomes an instrument in the service of the eu and imperialism. it promotes the policy of war, aggression, domination over third countries and oppression. these are values which can never be reconciled with policies of disarmament and peace. we advocate a different policy, based on solidarity, cooperation and mutual respect between states, as a guarantor of peace.
‒ another report that is no different from previous ones, continuing the militaristic, security and external interference policy that characterises eu action. the justification for this security drift is, without being new, centred on the alleged threats facing the eu, the east by the russian federation and the south by terrorism and islamic radicalism. the eu's responsibilities in escalating tensions to the east and in promoting the so-called 'islamic radicalism' that has justified acts of aggression and interference in the middle east and north africa are completely ignored. by cynically presenting the eu as a project of success and prosperity, it is burdening the federalist approach of militarism, further compromising the sovereignty of the member states. it promotes the undemocratic character of the eu; advocates the strengthening of the defence budgets of the member states and the eu; the role of the eu as the european military pillar of nato; the reform of the un security council seeking to ensure that it becomes an instrument in the service of the eu and imperialism. it promotes the policy of war, aggression, domination over third countries and oppression. these are values which can never be reconciled with policies of disarmament and peace. we advocate a different policy based on solidarity, cooperation and mutual respect between states as a guarantor of peace. we voted against it.
‒ the european union is by definition a project of peace and stability, seeking prosperity among its citizens and among the citizens of its neighbouring countries, in particular through the provision of humanitarian and development assistance. however, the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges today, including new conflicts in the polymorphic international community, energy insecurity, terrorism, cybersecurity, organised crime and climate change. the union can only respond adequately to the new challenges if its structures and its member states work together in a common and truly coordinated effort. the guarantee of peace and stability on our continent, in our neighbourhood and in africa must be a central focus of europe's action. therefore, and bearing in mind the important role of parliamentary diplomacy in strengthening political cooperation with eu partners, i support this report.
‒ this report looks at the most important developments in the common foreign and security policy over the past year and sets out priorities for the future, taking account of the changing geopolitical context, in particular with regard to brexit, the election of trump, the challenges arising on the east/south border in the face of an aggressive russia or extremist islamic movements. parliament believes that these challenges only underscore the need for reinforced eu integration, including decisive steps towards a 'defence union', and the need for the eu institutions and member states to commit themselves to this goal, including the provision of adequate funds.
‒ this report analyses the current state and challenges of international politics and the consequent role of the european union (eu) through its common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the rapporteur recognises and identifies the various challenges facing the eu in the external field, such as terrorism, cybersecurity, the fight against human trafficking and radicalisation. to effectively address the internal and external security challenges currently facing the eu and its member states, the eu and its member states need strong commitment, political will and leadership from the member states. i therefore agree with the idea that the eu's external action should be based on three basic pillars underpinning its unity, integrity and security: diplomacy, development and defence. ensuring peace and stability in europe is a key priority for sustainable development, and tackling the root causes of instability, terrorism, radicalisation and forced and irregular migration in the neighbourhood is crucial, and the new migration partnerships and the external investment plan are of great importance in this regard. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its content.
‒ i voted in favour of the brok report because i agree that at a time of unprecedented geopolitical challenges for the eu, deeper integration is needed, including building a defence union and maximising the union's diplomatic influence. i would remind you that the european union is one of the greatest successes in european history and that its transformative power has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens as well as to its neighbouring countries, many of which have become eu member states. i also stress that the union remains the world's largest economic power and the largest donor of humanitarian and development assistance, as well as a pioneer in world diplomacy in areas such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights. i therefore believe that the current internal and external crisis also represents an opportunity for the union, provided that it is used to improve its functioning and cooperation in order to make the eu better, more democratic and able to meet the expectations of its citizens.
‒ agricultural activity depends on biological processes and is therefore strongly dependent on climatic conditions and plant and animal diseases. these natural factors are beyond the farmer's control. the development of the performance of agricultural holdings is more uncertain than that of enterprises in other economic sectors. income uncertainty is particularly detrimental to investment and innovation and can affect the economic viability of farms. market uncertainty, as well as economic and climate risks, are likely to increase in the coming years. i agree that the volatility of agricultural product prices is one of the main factors in the dramatic situation currently faced by many european farmers and it is part of the european union's role to find solutions to this phenomenon, particularly through the cap.
‒ the instability of prices in agriculture is inseparable from the capitalist globalisation of trade in agricultural products. it is due to market factors (supply and demand), political decisions (trade agreements in the global market), financial investments and speculation (financial investments in agricultural products) and climate factors. the report sets out objectives to strengthen the organisation of the different agricultural sectors and contractual systems; addresses inequality in the food chain between large retailers and primary producers; and solutions to protect farmers' incomes more effectively through the use of risk management tools, income stabilisation instruments, individual provision mechanisms and mutual funds. the report also stresses that the current cap lacks effective response tools. however, it does not give clear answers, looking for solutions in the wrong places, failing to identify the real cause of the volatility problem. on the contrary, it supports a market-oriented and competitive model of agriculture. price volatility is a structural problem, to which the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products contributes. the risk management instruments proposed, in particular the various types of insurance and mutual funds, as well as the experiences with public-private partnerships in the framework of the cap crisis management tools, do not represent a solution.
the instability of prices in agriculture is inseparable from the capitalist globalisation of trade in agricultural products. it is due to market factors (supply and demand), political decisions (trade agreements in the global market), financial investments and speculation (financial investments in agricultural products) and climate factors. the report sets out objectives to strengthen the organisation of the different agricultural sectors and contractual systems; addresses inequality in the food chain between large retailers and primary producers; and solutions to protect farmers' incomes more effectively through the use of risk management tools, income stabilisation instruments, individual provision mechanisms and mutual funds. the report also stresses that the current cap lacks effective response tools. however, it does not give clear answers, looking for solutions in the wrong places, failing to identify the real cause of the volatility problem. on the contrary, it supports a market-oriented and competitive model of agriculture. price volatility is a structural problem, to which the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products contributes. the risk management instruments proposed, in particular the various types of insurance and mutual funds, as well as the experiences with public-private partnerships in the framework of the cap crisis management tools, do not represent a solution.
‒ agricultural activity is exposed to various risks, as it depends on biological processes and is thus heavily dependent on climatic conditions and plant and animal diseases, factors which are to some extent beyond the control of farmers. agriculture is thus confronted with higher levels of volatility than other economic sectors. income uncertainty is particularly detrimental to investment and innovation and can affect the economic viability of farms. the report argues that the cap does not currently have sufficient risk management tools to meet the needs of the sector, in the context of increasing volatility in the markets. i support this report because i believe that one of the main objectives of the cap must be to combat price volatility in order to guarantee fair incomes for farmers, to stabilise agricultural markets and to ensure the viability of food production.
‒ we need effective measures in the european union to protect farmers as well as consumers against unfair trading practices. farmers are the weakest link in the food chain, although they are one of the most important. the future common agricultural policy (cap) must seek new ways of combating price volatility and stabilising farmer incomes. the current system is either not working or is too slow to react to market imbalances such as the russian embargo or low international demand for agricultural products. the report also states that the ability to create and maintain rural jobs is the first step towards the next cap.
‒ agricultural activity obviously depends on biological processes and is therefore subject to natural factors outside the farmer's control (exogenous factors), thus making the performance of agricultural holdings uncertain and calling into question their economic viability. the common agricultural policy (cap) was initially characterised by strong regulation of agricultural markets through guaranteed prices, which ensured farmers a minimum value for their products in the event of a crisis. with successive reforms, its functioning has been altered. the last reform in 2013, which defined the cap for the period 2014-2020, was based on two pillars and the direct payments system was re-designed (more targeted, more equitable and greener). however, the risk management instruments provided for in the second pillar of the cap are insufficient to circumvent price volatility in farmers' incomes - one of the main factors of the instability currently experienced by many european farmers. strengthening the organization of the sectors and contractual arrangements, improving the protection of farmers' incomes through risk management instruments adapted to price volatility and increasing the transparency of the markets are some of the measures proposed by the rapporteur, which i support and for which i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as has been well said, volatility is a complex process with many causes. however, we must not mix these causes because otherwise we are not applying the appropriate instruments to this volatility. fever can be caused by a virus or a bacterium. treatment, to be effective, always implies a correct diagnosis. in this particular case, i fear that the randomness of the climate is being deliberately mixed with financial speculation and price manipulation by the big multinationals and the big retailers. to try to blame climate change as the main cause of increasing price volatility is to try to impose or accentuate an increasingly market-oriented reform of the cap and further aggravate the consequences of this instability. the stability of farmers is not at stake here. what is at stake here is the definitive abandonment of a logic of direct income support, which is stable, by a logic of income insurance, following the american model. price volatility is tackled with public regulatory instruments rather than financial instruments.
mr president, i also congratulate my colleague, mr díaz de mera, on his excellent work, as is customary. the european visa policy, in particular the visa exemption, is an essential element of the union's external relations, allowing for better cooperation with third states. cooperation with neighbouring countries is particularly important. the visa liberalization with georgia and ukraine - which this parliament has already approved - is a prime example. the approval of this suspension mechanism will contribute to greater security by allowing the exemption to be suspended in the event of a substantial increase in irregular stays. it will also be possible in the event of human rights violations in the third country. equally important is the increased flexibility of the mechanism, giving it a greater and faster reaction capacity. finally, thanks to the determined position of mr dias de mera, parliament has been able to be involved in more serious situations involving a longer suspension. the council has already reached the stage where it is time to unblock visa liberalization with georgia and ukraine. not only are the requirements met, but the importance of the matter for foreign policy is also clear.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur of parliament, agustín díaz de mera, on his ability to reach a consensus on an important issue for the construction of a genuine visa policy for the european union. the new rules allow for flexibility and a rapid activation of the suspension mechanism in the event of a substantial increase in the number of nationals of the country concerned, or irregular entries into the territory of the european union, a substantial increase in unfounded asylum applications, a lack of cooperation in readmission and in the event of threats to public policy or internal security related to third-country nationals. this agreement with the council will, we hope, calm some of the member states and, consequently, allow the adoption of the visa liberalisation agreements with georgia and ukraine to be completed quickly. it remains to be hoped that these rules will not be used for perverse political games. parliament will be watching.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the security breach that led to the online disclosure of names and phone numbers of suspects in europol's terrorism investigations cannot be downplayed or seen as an isolated case. it's not possible to dismiss this security breach on the grounds of individual error and that no investigation was compromised. an agency like europol must have procedures and controls in place so that the negligence of one official is not enough to make sensitive information suddenly appear on the net. the powers of this vital agency have been extended this year, and the role of democratic control exercised by the european parliament in association with the national parliaments has been strengthened. it is unacceptable that the europol directorate, perhaps under pressure from the commission and some member states, chose not to inform this house when it attended the meeting of our libyan committee at the end of last month, and that it was already in possession of this information. ironically, the subject of this meeting of the libyan committee was precisely the scrutiny of this agency. despite all the warnings and evidence that we are living in a hybrid war environment, it is intolerable that the commission and the member states, which have lately been ready to use the argument of security to justify breaches of human rights and the rule of law, as is the case, for example, in the reception of migrants and refugees, are not in fact taking cybersecurity and the devastating potential of attacks on critical infrastructure and networks seriously. it is intolerable that the commission is not playing its role of watchdog when it is itself under attack, as has happened in recent days. it is crucial to do a thorough investigation and to act urgently to ensure that all member states, institutions and agencies are effectively coordinating, exchanging information and are equipped with the necessary security and defence tools, which implies an adequate financial investment in technological and human resources, including human intelligence. scary reports are coming in from other parts of the world as well: russian interference may have occurred to influence, and perhaps even pervert, democratic expression in the us elections, but when, here among us, in the agency charged with coordinating efforts to combat crime in the digital age, it takes negligence to show the king is naked, how can we say we are safe?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we obviously condemn this attack, as we have condemned all the other horrendous terrorist attacks that have taken place in recent times. but i think it's important to talk about this attack on the coptic community to make a very clear message. it is not a war of religions, it is not a war of civilizations, and we in this parliament cannot fall into that trap. all victims count, no matter what their creed. we therefore have an obligation not to feed the hatred, the same hatred that feeds the terrorism that causes these victims. we cannot be complicit in the laundering that is being done. no lives are worth more than others. our role is a role of acting on the causes, of realizing that this was an attack on the face of the entire egyptian people. the egyptian people united, and they united in three days of mourning. it is up to us to draw attention to each of these attacks and to have a solidarity response to the humanitarian crisis we are experiencing, but, as i said, above all to act on the causes and not to give more importance to some lives than others. they're all equally important.
author. mr president, if the elected government in myanmar wants to build democracy in the country, it would have to have a plan to combat discrimination against the rohingya and other ethnic and religious minorities. but the stigmatization and systematic violation of the human rights of minorities and in particular of the rohingya in rakhine state has worsened with arbitrary executions, burned villages and mass rapes - finally, a real ethnic cleansing. the government announces a commission of inquiry, but it must allow for independent and international access and investigation. i am deeply sorry to have to say this, but sakharov and nobel laureate aung san suu kyi has increased responsibilities as a member of this government. after so much time and violence, we continue to expect you to act to protect the rohingya, facilitate access for international organisations to rakhine state and propose the necessary legislative and other reforms, including the restoration of citizenship for the rohingya. the european union must press the myanmar government to end violence against minorities and to create the conditions for genuine national reconciliation. it must also put pressure on the bangladeshi government to stop forcibly returning rohingya refugees to its territory.
‒ the approval of this suspension mechanism will contribute to greater security by allowing the suspension of the exemption in the event of a substantial increase in irregular stays. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. of equal importance is the increased flexibility of the mechanism, giving it a greater and faster reaction capacity. the role of the common european visa policy in the context of the union's external policy is thus also strengthened. the commitment reached with the council on the role of the european parliament is also emphasized. the court of justice has not only confirmed interinstitutional equality in this area, but it has also clearly established the legitimacy of this institution in applying such a severe instrument with clear repercussions in the union. the rapporteur has struck a good balance with the - initially - irreducible position of the member states by ensuring the use of delegated acts in longer suspension cases.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the new rules aim to make the suspension mechanism faster and more flexible, allowing for a faster reaction by the member states and the commission. the new rules make it easier for member states to notify circumstances leading to a possible suspension of visas and allow the commission to trigger this mechanism on its own initiative. the possible grounds for suspension are broadened to include a decrease in cooperation on readmission (return of migrants) and a substantial increase in risks to public policy or internal security.
‒ this report proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). this revision of the suspension mechanism is a response to the humanitarian refugee crisis and enshrines the intention to blackmail and put pressure on third countries. if their migration policies do not match and align with the criminal migration policies of the european union, then the obligation remains in place. either these countries accept eu policies, notably on the return policy, or they may limit the short-stay visa to their own citizens for access to the eu. this is unacceptable. we obviously voted against it.
‒ this report proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). this revision of the suspension mechanism is a response to the humanitarian refugee crisis and enshrines the intention to blackmail and pressure third countries if their migration policies do not match and align with the criminal migration policies of the european union. either those countries accept their policies, particularly in the area of return policy, or they may limit the short-stay visa for their own citizens to access the eu. we voted against it.
‒ this report proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism). according to the report, 'the evolution of the political and migratory situation requires, in particular in view of the successive visa liberalisation processes, that the suspension mechanism be revised in order to make it more rapid and flexible'. in other words, in the context of the 'migrant crisis', the european parliament wants to adopt a report that takes the idea of a strong europe further. it is also incapable of dealing with a situation which is already one of the greatest humanitarian scourges at the dawn of this century, creating mechanisms of repulsion, aggression and repression. we voted against it.
‒ citrus fruit imported into the eu should be subject to stricter phytosanitary controls to prevent the spread of pests, such as black spot, to european citrus orchards. the commission's draft is contrary to the objectives of the new regulation on protective measures against plant pests. the commission's draft is not sufficient to reduce these risks to an acceptable level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ according to the european commission proposal, the entry of citrus fruit would be subject only to a mere visual inspection of the product and dependent on a declaration attesting to the good health status of the fruit, and stating that it comes from fields subject to treatment and control of phyllosticta citricarpa (black spot). with this proposal the commission goes beyond its duties by proposing to weaken phytosanitary controls on imports, when parliament and the council have agreed to strengthen these measures. this phytosanitary laxity promoted by the commission can only be related to the enormous pressures of the processing and processing industry, particularly for northern european soft drinks, which wants to buy raw material at low cost, thus increasing its profits. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. we advocate strict controls on all imported citrus fruit, including sampling analysis and traceability certificates.
in writing. according to the european commission proposal, the entry of citrus fruit would be subject only to a simple visual inspection of the product and dependent on a declaration attesting to the good health status of the fruit and stating that it comes from fields subject to treatment and control of phyllosticta citricarpa (black spot). with this proposal the commission goes beyond its duties by proposing to weaken phytosanitary controls on imports, when parliament and the council have agreed to strengthen these measures. this phytosanitary laxity promoted by the commission can only be related to the enormous pressures of the processing and processing industry, particularly for northern european soft drinks, which wants to buy raw material at low cost, thus increasing its profits. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. we advocate strict controls on all imported citrus fruit, including sampling analysis and traceability certificates.
‒ after having been voted on in the october plenary and having adopted regulation (eu) 2016/2031 of the european parliament and of the council of 26 october 2016 on protective measures against plant pests, the european commission is now presenting a draft commission implementing directive that goes precisely in the opposite direction to the regulation. by weakening the legislation adopted, it calls into question the requirements for the placing on the market of certain fruit susceptible to pests, in particular citrus fruit intended for processing, and black spot pests, among others. the proposal would make the entry of citrus fruit subject to a mere visual inspection of the product and a declaration attesting to the good health status of the fruit and stating that it comes from fields subject to treatment and control of phyllosticta citricarpa (black spot). this is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution opposing the introduction of organisms harmful to plants and plant products in order to prevent their spread within the european union. this objection was necessary because the outbreak of bacteria (notably xyllela fasttidiosa in italy) and the introduction of invasive species into europe demonstrate the need to ensure that all imports of plants or plant products are free from pests. one infected plant can destroy an entire industry or the economy of an entire region. i therefore stress the need for specified fruits originating in third countries to be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate proving that these fruits originate from a production field which has undergone appropriate treatments to prevent the spread of bacteria and pests.
‒ there are still more than 4 000 thalidomide survivors in europe today, including 2 800 in germany, 450 in italy, 400 in the united kingdom, 400 in spain, 103 in sweden and about 90 in austria. almost 60 years later, survivors are still waiting for justice and a compensatory solution that will enable them to endure the costly treatments that their physical condition requires. i therefore believe that it is essential that the needs of the surviving thalidomide victims in europe be fully recognised in order to guarantee their autonomy, access to medical treatment and an adequate quality of life. the commission should draw up an assistance programme to complement the action of the member states to provide financial support to victims of thalidomide and their families.
‒ thalidomide was marketed from 1956 as an anti-influenza and calming for sleep disorders and as a tranquilizer and later indicated for morning sickness in pregnancy. it was taken off the market years later, having been linked to cases of congenital malformations. it is estimated that between 10,000 and 20,000 people worldwide are affected by thalidomide, with varying degrees of disability. chemie gruenhental, the company responsible for the marketing of thalidomide, has not previously conducted clinical trials. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european commission in 2015 celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first pharmaceutical legislation to ensure the safety of medicines. the tragedy of thalidomide was one of the main reasons for the creation of this legislation. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the victims of thalidomide are supported in all member states. it comes at a time when the german parliament is due to amend the law on financial support rules for survivors.
in writing. thalidomide was marketed from 1956 as an anti-influenza and sedative for sleep disorders and as a tranquilizer and later indicated for morning sickness of pregnancy. it was taken off the market years later, having been linked to cases of congenital malformations. it is estimated that between 10,000 and 20,000 people worldwide are affected by thalidomide, with varying degrees of disability. chemie gruenhental, the company responsible for the marketing of thalidomide, has not previously conducted clinical trials. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european commission in 2015 celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first pharmaceutical legislation to ensure the safety of medicines. the tragedy of thalidomide was one of the main reasons for the creation of this legislation. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the victims of thalidomide are supported in all member states. it comes at a time when the german parliament is due to amend the law on financial support rules for survivors.
‒ the 'thalidomide generation' began to appear in the late 1950s, but it was not until 1961 that the first alert was made about cases of congenital malformations associated with the use of thalidomide. it was withdrawn from the market in germany and england in 1961. it is estimated that between 10,000 and 20,000 people worldwide are affected by thalidomide, with varying degrees of disability. in 2012, the chief executive of chemie gruenhental, responsible for the product, for the first time in half a century, made a formal apology which was considered inappropriate, pathetic and offensive by victim advocacy organisations, considering that his apology was too light, too late and full of hypocrisy, since for 50 years, grunenthal was involved in a corporate strategy calculated to shield itself from any moral, legal and financial consequences. this resolution follows on from the qo and the debate which took place in the plenary in march this year. the urgency of putting it on the plenary agenda is that in january 2017, the german parliament is expected to amend the law on the rules for financial support to survivors and, by using this resolution, to press and ask that this support be given to all victims in eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on support for the victims of thalidomide because i believe that survivors should be formally recognised in all member states and receive fair compensation from the german fund specially set up for this purpose. i would remind you that the drug thalidomide was marketed by the german pharmaceutical company grünenthal in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a safe medicine for the treatment of nausea, headache, cough, insomnia and constipation during pregnancy and that it has caused the death or malformation of thousands of newborns after being administered to pregnant women in many european countries.
‒ the paediatric medicines regulation has had a considerable impact on the development of paediatric medicines, helping to improve the overall situation and giving rise to concrete benefits in relation to a number of childhood diseases. despite the existence of more paediatric research projects, more high-quality information, sufficient progress has not been made in several areas, particularly in oncology and neonatology. i support this resolution, which calls on the commission to submit the report provided for in article 50 in due time so as to provide a full identification and in-depth analysis of the obstacles currently impeding innovation in medicinal products for the paediatric population and to consider introducing changes, including through a legislative review of the regulation. i believe that priority should be given to paediatric needs and medicines, based on scientific data, in order to match the best available therapies to the therapeutic needs of children, especially those affected by cancer, and to optimise the resources used in research.
‒ the paediatric medicines regulation has had a considerable impact on paediatric medicines development, as pharmaceutical companies consider paediatric development as an integral part of overall drug development. childhood cancer remains the leading cause of death by disease in children aged one year and over, and 6000 young people die of cancer every year in europe; two thirds of patients who survive suffer from side effects due to existing treatments. in this context, i agree that the commission may be able to introduce amendments, including through a legislative revision of the paediatric medicines regulation, which take due account of the need for paediatric development plans based on the mechanism of action and not just on the type of disease, models for disease and medicines prioritization, earlier and more viable pips, and incentives that stimulate more research and respond more effectively to the needs of the paediatric population.
‒ children have often been referred to as 'therapeutically orphaned' as they are often denied treatment appropriate to their specific characteristics as well as to the diseases and conditions that specifically affect them. in 2006, regulation (ec) no 1901/2006 on medicinal products for paediatric use entered into force. while it has resulted in an improvement in the overall situation and concrete benefits in a number of childhood diseases, sufficient progress has not been made in several areas, in particular in paediatric oncology and neonatology. the legislation in force in the eu also has several shortcomings. for example, there are considerable delays in starting paediatric clinical trials of cancer medicines. the current legislative approach is not satisfactory for specific and exclusive diseases of children, as well as for rare diseases. there are no paediatric investigation plans (pips) for specific childhood fatal diseases such as high-risk neuroblastoma. this is not financially attractive to pharmaceutical companies. the resolution fails to recognise the right of children to access appropriate treatment and innovative medicines tailored to their specific conditions and rare diseases. instead of recognising the market's flaws and perversities, it does not envisage solutions beyond its narrow limits.
in writing. children have often been referred to as therapeutically orphans, as they are often denied treatment appropriate to their specific characteristics as well as to the diseases and conditions that specifically affect them. in 2006, regulation (ec) no 1901/2006 on medicinal products for paediatric use entered into force. while it has resulted in an improvement in the overall situation and concrete benefits in a number of childhood diseases, sufficient progress has not been made in several areas, in particular in paediatric oncology and neonatology. the legislation in force in the eu also has several shortcomings. for example, there are considerable delays in starting paediatric clinical trials of cancer medicines. the current legislative approach is not satisfactory for specific and exclusive diseases of children, as well as for rare diseases. there are no paediatric investigation plans (pips) for specific childhood fatal diseases such as high-risk neuroblastoma. this is not financially attractive to pharmaceutical companies. the resolution fails to recognise the right of children to access appropriate treatment and innovative medicines tailored to their specific conditions and rare diseases. instead of recognising the market's flaws and perversities, it does not envisage solutions beyond its narrow limits.
‒ the existing legislation in the eu on medicines for paediatric use still has several gaps that it has not been able to close. there are no paediatric investigation plans (pips) for specific childhood fatal diseases such as high-risk neuroblastoma, however some pips exist for extremely rare cancers in children and adolescents. this is because the approval of an imp is encouraged by research done by adult pharmaceutical companies, thus saving money on part of the study. the resolution fails to recognise as a right of children access to appropriate treatment and innovative medicines specific to their specific conditions and rare diseases, it is based on the principle of market being stimulated to respond to a problem of lack of resources to respond to a very specific population. in addition, the concern to find suitable cancer drugs alone leaves a whole host of childhood conditions and diseases outside the remit of the pharmaceutical companies, which only research and market what suits their interests, rather than the interests of children and adolescents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the oral question with resolution on paediatric medicines because i agree with an early position by the european parliament before the review of the paediatric medicines regulation which the european commission is due to present early next year. i regret that many children suffering from rare paediatric diseases do not have access to specific paediatric medicines. i would remind you that the existing paediatric regulation has had a positive effect on the development of paediatric medicines and has led to tangible benefits for a number of childhood diseases, but insufficient progress has been made in several areas. it is therefore urgent to promote innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can have access to appropriate paediatric medicines. in this context, i would also stress the need to develop tests for primary immunodeficiency in the member states to detect diseases that can be treated if they are diagnosed in good time.
‒ the 2015 annual report is intended to provide a summary of the work of the committee on petitions. statistics show that most citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. most of the petitions declared inadmissible are because the petitioners continue to confuse european and national competences and the competences of the european institutions with those of the council of europe and the court of human rights. i support the vallina report, which argues for the need to redouble efforts to better inform citizens about the right to petition and what they can get by petitioning the european parliament. i agree with the need to develop the solvit network and the importance of access to it for all those who need it. the committee on petitions has the opportunity to maintain a dialogue with citizens, since by listening to and resolving the problems which concern them, it can help to link the institutions and citizens of the union.
in writing. according to statistics, in 2015 the european parliament received 1431 petitions, which represents a decrease of 47% compared to the 2714 petitions submitted in 2014. in 2015, 943 petitions were considered admissible (65,9% of a total of 1431) and 483 were declared inadmissible (33,8%). in 2015, 63,4% of the petitions received, i.e. 907 petitions, were dealt with quickly, either because they were considered inadmissible (33,8%) or because, although admissible, they were closed immediately after transmission of information to the petitioners or after their referral to another parliamentary committee competent for the matter (29,6%). it should be noted that the percentage of petitions considered inadmissible decreased compared to 2014 (6,1% in 2015), and that the percentage of petitions considered admissible increased (5,9%). for 2015, there were several changes in the list of countries of origin of petitions, with spain remaining at the top, followed by italy, germany, romania and poland. however, there was a significant increase in the proportion of italian petitions, from 7.9% to 12.3%. i voted in favour.
‒ this report describes the activities and work of the committee on petitions of the european parliament. it gives details of the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by this commission or on the countries or issues concerned, and is an important quantitative tool in evaluating its work. during 2015 1431 petitions were received (down 47% from 2014), 943 were considered admissible, of which 424 had a rapid examination. the analysis shows that most citizens who use this procedure to turn to the european parliament seek assistance on matters relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market. other petitioners seek to make their proposals for the implementation of eu policies heard and others still address the european parliament to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against judgments of national courts. the majority of them complain of weaknesses in the application of european legislation, either because of faulty transposition of legislation, or because of non-application of community rules, or because of violations of them. this confirms the discontent and growing alienation of citizens from the process of european integration. we stress that the final version of this report has been considerably weakened, as the right wing has dropped references to so-called austerity policies and their effects.
‒ this report describes the activities and work of the committee on petitions. it details the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee or on the countries or issues concerned, and is an important quantitative tool in evaluating its work. during 2015 1431 petitions were received (down 47% from 2014), 943 were considered admissible, of which 424 had a rapid examination. the analysis shows that most citizens who use this procedure to turn to parliament seek assistance on matters relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market. other petitioners seek to make their proposals for the implementation of union policies heard and others still address the european parliament to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against judgments of national courts. the majority of them complain of weaknesses in the application of european legislation, either because of faulty transposition of legislation, or because of non-application of community rules, or because of violations of them. this confirms the discontent and growing alienation of citizens from the process of european integration.
‒ during 2015 1431 petitions were received (down 47% from 2014), 943 were considered admissible, of which 424 were rapidly examined. the right to petition must be a fundamental instrument on the road to participatory democracy. peti can do a considerable job of explaining and possibly proving the successes and benefits of the european project. in 2015, there was a greater speed and efficiency in the handling of petitions. the main issues addressed are environmental legislation, violations of fundamental rights, the administration of justice (in particular custody rights for minors), the rights of the child, disabled persons and minorities, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, employment and animal welfare. petitions can be a useful tool for citizen involvement. however, its scope is limited and in practice it has been more of a democratic ornament than a genuine tool for popular mobilisation. that is not the way to solve the democratic deficit in the eu.
‒ the european commission has proposed in its strategy for europe to open negotiations on civil aviation safety with a number of countries. however, in the conclusion of international agreements in areas to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies, parliament's consent is required and, in accordance with the framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission, it must be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure. i support this resolution, which stresses that the framework agreement stipulates in particular that all detailed information concerning the ongoing process at all stages of the negotiations should be provided to parliament from the outset on a regular basis and, if necessary, on a confidential basis, and expects the commission to provide the parliamentary committee on transport with information on its intention to propose negotiations with a view to concluding and amending international air transport agreements, access to all relevant documents, including negotiating directives and consolidated texts, in parallel and on an equal footing with the council.
‒ the commission has proposed, in the aviation strategy for europe, the opening of negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china and, at eu level, air services agreements with china, turkey, mexico, the six gulf cooperation council states, armenia and asean. however, in order to be able to take its decision on the approval of the document at the end of the negotiations, parliament has to follow the process from the beginning because it is also in the interest of the other institutions that any reservations sufficiently important to call into question parliament's willingness to approve the agreement are identified and addressed at an early stage.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. this report supports the strategy, which we strongly oppose. in short, its objective: increase exploitation, degrade sovereignty, promote capitalist concentration. in its various chapters strategy for the airline sector, for air navigation, for airports, for assistance at scale we find various ways of serving the interests of the european multinationals in the sector; reducing operational safety standards; accentuating security drives; subordinating labour to capital. the strategy can be said to be developed in two stages: 1) creating the conditions for monopolistic concentration on a european scale, thereby giving 'muscle' to the large european groups in the sector; 2) creating conditions at international level for european multinationals to colonize new markets abroad. objectives we repudiate across the board. the report does not hide its anger at the fact that liberalisation is not moving forward at the speed some people want. the insistence on multimodal issues and the need to standardize passenger rights so that they are possible gives the impression that they want to move towards deregulation from above. we voted against it.
in writing. as part of the aviation strategy for europe of december 2015, the european commission opened negotiations for aviation agreements with several countries, mostly asian. this report supports the strategy, which we strongly oppose. in short, its objective: increase exploitation, degrade sovereignty, promote capitalist concentration. in its various chapters strategy for the airline sector, for air navigation, for airports, for assistance at scale we find various ways of serving the interests of the european multinationals in the sector; reducing operational safety standards; accentuating security drives; subordinating labour to capital. the strategy can be said to be developed in two stages: 1) creating the conditions for monopolistic concentration on a european scale, thereby giving 'muscle' to the large european groups in the sector; 2) creating conditions at international level for european multinationals to colonize new markets abroad. objectives we repudiate across the board. the report does not hide its anger at the fact that liberalisation is not moving forward at the speed some people want. the insistence on multimodal issues and the need to standardize passenger rights so that they are possible gives the impression that they want to move towards deregulation from above. we voted against it.
‒ the draft report on an aviation strategy for europe supports the document made public by the commission a year ago, which was severely criticised by a wide range of sectors of society at the time. the same basic objective is pursued: to promote a single market for civil aviation by promoting concentration, reducing safety standards, and increasing security and data control. this idea of a 'trans-european sky highway' as a stepping stone to the full realisation of the single sky cannot disguise this reality. the commission is also concerned that the liberalization of the market is not proceeding as rapidly as some would like. the reference to the advantages of the complementarity of the means of transport contrasts with the alleged advantages of introducing a liberal offensive which will only contribute to the degradation of the service and the enrichment of the same.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the european parliament and the council. i believe that the european commission should take the necessary steps to improve the current system of informing parliament about the negotiation of international agreements and automatically inform parliament of details of all stages of the process in a spirit of interinstitutional cooperation.
