the next item is the debate on the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on eu competition policy (a8-0368/2015) [2015/2140 (ini) ].
mr president, i should like to say at the outset that i appreciate the work of the european commission, your work, commissioner, and that of your colleagues in implementing european competition policy. we must recognise that each case investigated is complex, requires professionalism and usually comes before the european courts. however, i think a serious analysis needs to be made. how could the european commission for years have failed to tackle tax practices that, as we now see in the case of the belgian investigation, constitute state aid violations? it's unacceptable that this happened. it took a huge public scandal for the european institutions to become aware that we have a serious problem here. i ask the european commission, i ask you to give full attention to these tax practices wherever they are, in every member state, and of course to allocate the necessary resources to investigate them.
the point is that i understood, when mr marias spoke, that he was referring to that company which can be linked to the state you mentioned. he didn't say it belonged to lufthansa. it mentioned lufthansa in parallel with that company in the same case. that's what i heard. so with that, i explained, if you've been paying attention. please discuss this together afterwards, because we can't open the discussion now.
the next item is the debate on the report by gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009 (com (2015) 0180 c8-0118/2015 2015/0096 cod) (a80367/2015).
i think we have a problem with the english interpretation, so if this can be resolved... (interjection from mr marias)we understood you perfectly, sir. i can assure you of that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 january 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and welcome the commission's proposal to include all measures relating to the bluefin tuna recovery plan in a new regulation. it is important that this regulation takes account of all the links with the new cfp (common fisheries policy), in particular with regard to the possibility of derogation based on international commitments, but also with regard to the landing obligation. i would like to remind the commission, however, of its role as co-legislator and guarantor of democratic control in the european parliament. parliament must be involved in any decision to amend the recovery plans for atlantic or mediterranean tuna, which is why we cannot accept the delegated acts proposed by the commission. any change must be made by co-decision. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of promoting small-scale fishing. member states should pay greater attention to non-industrial fishing because it is more sustainable and guarantees employment in coastal areas.
the next item is the debate on the objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) (2015/2988(rps)).
madam president, of course, the first observation i make is that of the absence of the council. i do not think we should have different interests and we should all be present on this subject: the council, the commission and ourselves. i think all my colleagues are right; we want to improve air quality, life is a priority; there has to be a continuous journey, this improvement of air quality and not just in the automotive field, but across sectors. i am very reserved, because if we reject what the commission is introducing for the first time, a test system based on measuring emissions from the exhaust pipe during traffic, we will be prolonging the process very much. sometimes when you want to get too much, you lose. i do not know whether, for the citizens, putting off measurement for years and introducing the test system to measure the exhaust emissions of motor vehicles in circulation would be a solution. that is why i am very reserved and i think we must think very carefully when we vote on this proposal for a regulation. the commission obviously needs to continue to improve the parameters.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate ms ward for her great work on this very important topic in the current context of increasing concern over radicalisation and extremism in europe and around the world. more than ever, we need to focus on the high potential of intercultural dialogue and on the eu dimension in education to promote and develop a deeper inclusivity and sense of belonging, respect for cultural diversity, community spirit and acceptance of multicultural and multinational societies. as education has a central role to play in transmitting the principle of active citizenship and multicultural respect to younger generations, we need to fully engage all education stakeholders in this respect and ensure that culture, education and intercultural dialogue receive a central position in european policies. it is essential that we increase investment in education and create more inclusive learning environments, by ensuring equal access to high quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all learners, especially for those coming from disadvantaged or vulnerable groups.
in writing. in a continuously challenged union, it is of the utmost importance that the young generation has access to programmes that enable them to acquire the skills and life skills essential for personal development with a view to a future career and active european citizenship. i welcome the early access of children, regardless of their cultural and social background, to other cultures through programmes that enable them to create a sense of common belonging and a culture of intercultural dialogue. in this context, the inclusion of special study visits to different member states and the transnational mobility of young children through transregional and cross-border cooperation is a necessary means to build the foundations of european cultures, arts, languages and values. on the other hand, mobility of young people and teachers, all forms of cooperation between schools and universities, for example through joint educational platforms, joint study programmes and projects, are essential elements to support the understanding and appreciation of cultural diversity, as well as the acquisition by young people of social, civic and intercultural skills.
in writing. developing intercultural and interreligious dialogue with all stakeholders is a first step in effectively addressing the socio-cultural conflicts that have recently erupted in the eu and beyond. equally important is education in training young people, the new generations, to accept cultural diversity, to think freely and to respect each other. these two instruments are essential to combat certain increasingly widespread social phenomena such as discrimination, violence, radicalism, racism and xenophobia.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for giving me the chance to come along this evening. i want to congratulate mr balz for this excellent report and for setting out the issues at stake so clearly. i share 100% his goal of creating an effective legislative framework for financial services. for that to happen, people need to know that it will be implemented. but they also need to know that it will be proportionate and that it can respond to changing circumstances, and that is the logic that sits behind the call for evidence that forms part of the capital markets union (cmu) action plan. i therefore see this report and the call for evidence as being consistent, the one with the other. i would like briefly to focus on two issues raised by the report: the need for a regulatory framework that supports growth, and the need to make sure that smaller businesses have access to finance. it is clear that the major reforms we have introduced in recent years have made the financial system stronger, and now it is time to check whether, looked at in the round, those 40 separate pieces of legislation that we passed have had any unintended consequences. as mr balz said, it is part of good law making to check that our rules are doing what they set out to do. the call for evidence will close at the end of this month. i hope it will give us a better understanding of the impact of our legislation. it will help determine our approach to over 100 reviews of existing legislation planned over the next five years. it will inform how we monitor the effectiveness of legislation in the future, and i know that your report makes a number of interesting recommendations in this area. we need legislation that is proportionate if we are going to create an environment that supports investment. if legislation can be streamlined, if it can be simplified and yet achieve the same prudential objective, let us be ready to change it. i am looking forward to reporting back to you when we have been through the ‘call for evidence’ responses and completed our analysis. improving access to finance for smaller companies is also one of the priorities in the report that i strongly support. if we need companies, if we want companies to start up and grow and create jobs here in europe, we have to improve the funding conveyor belt. that is what lies behind the work to build a capital markets union. i am grateful for the support that you have given it in this report. as you know, we have made a quick start. among the initiatives relevant to the report, we have proposed to overhaul the prospectus directive. we are looking forward to working with you on our proposal to relaunch simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, and that is to free up lending capacity in the banking sector and increased lending to the wider economy. the council reached an agreement on that in record time. i hope we can keep up the same kind of pace. those were just two of the main areas in your report, but there is a wealth of recommendations in there. it has strengthened my belief that, by continuing to work closely together, we have a real opportunity to refine our legislation, to make sure it strikes the right balance between maintaining financial stability, giving consumers confidence, and supporting investment and growth across europe.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, congratulations to mr balz and all the colleagues who worked on this very good report. indeed, in the last seven years, we have adopted a whole host of european regulations on financial services, as a result of the crisis. what we have done: restore and maintain financial stability, strengthen consumer protection and avoid that financial market excesses are covered by european taxpayers' money in the future. now is the time to see how these regulations are implemented, what the impact is, what the results are, to see where corrections are needed in this european legislation. i particularly welcome the report's proposals on assessing access to finance for smes and the remaining obstacles to long-term project financing.
mr president, tackling gender equality does not only require efforts to promote equality as a principle, but also requires the implementation of specific measures to promote by member states multiple actions to provide assistance and advice to women who decide to become entrepreneurs. to do this, women need facilities and simplified access to finance and other support, reduction of bureaucracy and removal of other obstacles in the way of newly established companies. in this context, member states need to systematically examine measures and policies to promote an entrepreneurial culture in education and training programmes, to raise awareness among women of entrepreneurial training opportunities and to ensure that they have equal opportunities with men in the field and the opportunity to have a successful career; and last but not least, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the approach taken.
in writing. the european union and the member states must understand that the solution to tackling youth unemployment lies in working with young people. to do this, mechanisms must be created to support them in pursuing their desired careers. too often we've been stuck in a pattern and we haven't adapted to structural change. we have to start innovating. we need more than a programme, we need a coherent strategy that involves young people in particular. as a young mep, i can say on behalf of my generation that we want more from the eu. we don't just want a job, we want decent jobs. we don't want to be a statistic in the budgets of big corporations that benefit from tax breaks. the 7.5 million unemployed young europeans are in this situation because our states and the eu have forgotten to protect their citizens. i believe that education and training are the solution, but we need more than that, we need to give real hope to young people. unfortunately, i do not think that the european commission has succeeded in doing that.
in writing. young europeans continue to need our help. seven and a half million. this is a figure that demonstrates beyond any shadow of a doubt that the problem of youth unemployment is far from solved. these young people have no horizon of hope in the european union. 7.5 million young people between 15 and 24 years old are not included in any form of education and have no employment of any kind. the solutions have been in place and being implemented for years, and yet we don't see enough improvement in the situation of young people. the message of the resolution is correct and the debate is welcome. we need to invest more now, not next year or the next period, but now, in education programs for young people, in programs that develop the entrepreneurial spirit of young people, in retraining programs. we need to target the over-24 age group as well. until they are at least 30, young europeans need guidance and support. we must remain constantly in touch with the evolution of youth unemployment, because we see, including from the reports presented by the european commission, that there are enough situations where european resources have not produced the desired result.
mr president, the romanian public opinion, as well as the romanian press, have repeatedly expressed concern in recent months about the fate of the bodnariu family, whose children were taken from their parents by the specialised protection services in norway. the reasons for the norwegian authorities' decision are unclear. so far, there is no official information on the motivation of this action. the lack of information stems from the lack of transparency of the norwegian authorities, which do not provide the requested data to either the press or the bodnariu family. although norway is not a member state of the union, marius bodnariu, the father of the children, is a citizen of the european union and i believe it is important that he and his family are protected by european rules and institutions, beyond the efforts made by the romanian authorities. i would also like to call on my fellow members to support our calls for the representatives of the european institutions to be directly involved in clarifying this situation for the benefit of the five children of the bodnariu family.
mr. president, in my country, family is very important and traditionally, children and parents remain a united family even after the children make their own family. a recent study in the uk shows that the country where children are the happiest is romania, with norway ranking 6th. the case of the bodnariu family - and other families, not just theirs - has gone around the world because of the way the norwegian authorities have understood to take children from the bodnariu family and the other families. parents were not given any warning and the surveillance procedure was not followed without removing the children from the family first. the rights of the child are regulated in detail in the charter of fundamental rights. the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration in all actions relating to children. romania and norway are signatories to the un convention on the rights of the child and these rights must be respected. i wonder: what are we doing to protect our european citizens living outside the european union? i want to ask: can we be a united europe? can the european parliament, the european commission, the commissioner for these matters intervene for the whole family? i'm a mother, and i can't accept that my children can be loved more than their natural parents, no matter who the authorities are.
mr. speaker, over 1,660 children were taken from their parents in norway in 2014. between 3 and 4 children a day are separated from their parents, allegedly for mistreatment. how many of these are the children of the european union? i bring before you a case that expresses the problem of the norwegian child protection system. the bodnariu family lost their five children for insufficiently substantiated and subjective reasons, which barnevernet invoked. without a court decision, without judicial transparency and without respecting the presumption of innocence of the parents, the five children are abducted from the family. this is not an isolated case. it is an example of an abusive modus operandi used by the norwegian authorities. i use this minute to call on the european parliament, the european commission, all the european institutions and each of my colleagues to support the fundamental rights of the european family. the european citizenship of all immigrants who are in such situations demands our attention. the european union has a duty to protect its citizens from any form of abuse.
mr president, parliament and the european institutions must guarantee the security of the citizens of the european union, and they must not remain passive in the face of the norwegian child protection system. this system disintegrates families who dare to raise their children according to their own moral values. thus, belief in god constitutes a crime of opinion that must be punished by removing children from their families. this is also the case of the bodnariu family, from whom five children were taken, including a three-month-old baby who was breastfeeding. the sudden interruption of this will seriously and irreparably affect their growth and development! there are now over 3,000 children whose parents seek justice in a complex legal system, including the echr, and when they find it, the norwegian state often refuses to recognize it, for reasons that are hard to understand. i therefore believe that mechanisms must be found at european union level to induce the norwegian authorities to review their policy in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have listened to my colleagues, we are all, the romanian public, outraged by the cases of seven romanian families, the most well-known being the case of the bodnariu family, the romanian father, the norwegian mother, whose five children were taken from the family by the child protection service, without a court decision, through an abusive interpretation of what would be the best interests of the child and through an action disproportionate to the actual situation, violating the principles of the international convention on the rights of the child. this is not the first time this has happened, as norway has already been sentenced to the echr for similar cases. i hope that public opinion in european states and capitals will become aware and react and i call for the involvement of the european institutions, the european commission and in particular the european external action service to remedy these situations and to convince the norwegian authorities to improve the legislative framework so that such cases do not exist in the future.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital infrastructure is fully integrated and that the union's digital infrastructure is fully integrated. they also strongly support the prevention of unjustified geo-blocking. ambitious and targeted measures are needed to improve access to goods and services by eliminating unjustified geo-blocking and price discrimination based on geographical location or nationality. the commission's proposal is a first step towards ending geo-blocking, and aims to strengthen portability and interoperability in order to stimulate the free movement of legally acquired and available content or services, and the accessibility and cross-border operation of subscriptions. i see no contradiction between the principle of territoriality and measures to remove barriers to the portability of content. the digital single market report is just the beginning towards removing geo-blocking, and we all support you. ..the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, as rapporteur for the socialist group in the committee on civil liberties, i too have fought for a digital single market report that is as beneficial as possible to europe's citizens, innovation and economy. in addition to creating a more inclusive and efficient society, the digital single market and technological advances also offer smaller firms the chance to compete with large companies and create new jobs. this is a big step for young european entrepreneurs, with tremendous potential in countries like romania, and beyond. at the same time, respect for citizens' fundamental rights, in particular the protection of personal data and the right to privacy, is a key element. both european legislation and the technology itself need to be developed, putting the citizen at the centre and in control of his or her data. strict sanctions should be imposed for the misuse of personal data or for breaches of privacy by private, public and governmental institutions, especially in the case of data transfers to third countries. the digital single market has tremendous potential for europe, but without proper implementation, it can only become a number on the list of eu laws. if we work together, we can develop and bring innovation to europe. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make it clear, my name is emilian pavel, not tošenovský. mr. president, for my colleague's sake, i must assure you that the caregivers are aware of the transfer of personal data, and that your rights are being violated. i am convinced that public-private partnerships will ensure this, because it is in the interest of both the private sector and the state and the member states to protect the fundamental rights of citizens.
mr president, a segmented european landscape in the field of cross-border access to digital content and services clearly shows how far we still are from the expectations we have had of a common digital single market of the 21st century. the market is full of selective distribution practices, unjustified geo-blocking and discrimination based on ip and postal addresses or credit card issuing countries, the use of which significantly distorts competition. as a result, european consumers are still not able to purchase the content that their neighbour can. often they cannot use their content legally acquired in one member state when they cross the border into another. i am glad to see that the report takes into account that, besides economic gains, the other most obvious benefit of opening up these markets would be a more multilingual europe and the flourishing of cultures, especially minority ones whose survival often depends on the accessibility of cultural goods from neighbouring states.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed to such an important report. the fact that over 2 000 amendments were tabled shows the importance and interest shown by our colleagues. the digital single market is extremely important and good regulation can open up new opportunities for both users and businesses, whereas bad regulation can block them. the digital single market regulations should lead to an increase in the number of smes. commissioner, there's still a lot of work to be done. the commission forecasts growth potential of over 100 billion in the sharing economy, but there is still a lot to do. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the consumer. i have to tell you that the european regions are very differently developed in terms of connectivity and that is where you have to put the emphasis. i support and vote for the report, but to make it a reality the commission must harmonize the way investment funds are spent in order to reduce regional disparities.
in writing. europe is still far from a digital single market. we have very different regulations in the member states, we have tax policies that are not yet adapted to a digital market. any delay in the completion of the digital single market will cause great damage to the european economy in terms of jobs and profits. the digital revolution is in full swing. it fundamentally transforms the business model in all areas, including activities predominantly financed from public budgets, such as health, education, national defence, etc. whoever stays behind now stays behind for a long time. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital single market and the digital single market in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski, so that he will be able to pay his speeding ticket.
in writing. – i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski, so that he will be able to pay his speeding ticket.
in writing. – i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) is the authority that takes decisions for the conservation and management of fisheries in its area of competence. those acts are binding and need to be transposed into union law. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks, which will end in 2022. this plan has been successively amended by iccat at its annual meetings. the aim of transposing the iccat recommendations is to ensure uniform application throughout the eu, which should aim at ensuring a level playing field for all tuna fishermen, and in particular third country operators. otherwise, if different rules are applied to foreign fleets, all the efforts and restrictions on eu fishermen will be fruitless. i voted in favour of this report because we need to ensure that the latest measures in the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan adopted by iccat are applied uniformly and effectively throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ when dealing with this fishing sustainability, we must safe-guard long term productivity, promote local employment opportunities, encourage the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. unfortunately, the current bluefin tuna fishing quota system penalises small-scale fishermen, and needs to be reviewed. large vessels owners are too dominant and might harm the fishing sustainability. i therefore support transposal into union law of the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. i believe that the technical measures included in the multiannual recovery plan will lead to positive developments for environment, nature and local employment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. it mentions that fishermen have made considerable efforts to adjust their catches by complying with the strict fishing laws from the past and bluefin tuna biomass has been showing a dramatically positive trend since 2008. this report contains technical measures such as those on transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna. all in all, this report aims at transposing into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that aims to contribute to the rebuilding and conservation of tuna stocks, through fishing operations with low impact on marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today as it concludes the procedure for transposing the latest measures on the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan adopted in 2012-14 within the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). as the results of the latest surveys show that bluefin tuna stocks are recovering thanks to the measures under the 2006-2022 multiannual plan, i believe it is the eu's duty to contribute to this effort by transposing these new measures into european legislation.
in writing. ‒ catches of bluefin tuna are one of the significant components of the fishing activity of the member states in the waters of the atlantic ocean and the mediterranean sea. their uniform regulation at european union level contributes to the recovery of stocks and to the maintenance of an appropriate level of economic use. the eu is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the regional fisheries management organisation for tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas, and as such has to apply its decisions. in view of the positive evolution of stocks in recent years, iccat decided in 2013 to increase the quota allocated to member states slightly. however, it needs to be properly transposed by the commission in order to guarantee a level playing field for all operators involved in tuna fishing and in particular third country operators. the quotas established should encourage small-scale fishermen, who are currently disadvantaged, and provide an additional guarantee for keeping stocks at an acceptable level. the european parliament must be involved in the international negotiation of these quotas, on the basis of its powers given by the european citizens it represents. the adoption of this document is a first step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean aims to ensure uniform and effective application of the measures recently adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas to restore bluefin tuna stocks. the eu is part of iccat, which has the authority to adopt decisions for the conservation and management of fisheries in its area of competence. as regards the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks, iccat has taken measures such as the gradual reduction of the level of total allowable catches, restrictions on fishing in certain zones and periods, measures relating to sport and recreational fishing activities, measures relating to spawning and fishing capacity, and the setting of quotas at european union level. the decisions taken in iccat so far have led to a spectacular recovery of bluefin tuna stocks and in this regard these measures should be continued for a full recovery. i therefore voted in favour of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean.
mr president, i voted differently on this report from the ecr group, and that is because i believe that healthy tax competition is part of the essence of the union's single market. at the moment, it is estimated that tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens cost us, the citizens of the european union, around 1 trillion euros every year. in practice, we cannot talk about competition when some firms pay taxes and other firms do not pay taxes. companies should be prevented from sending their profits to tax havens and should be obliged to keep them in the country or countries where they made those profits, just so they can be taxed. companies with a tax residence in tax havens should also not be allowed to participate in tenders. we need a common database with information on all companies in the union, precisely to force them to pay taxes in the union, in the union countries where they make this money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on eu competition policy because i consider it to be a basic pillar of the social market economy in europe and an essential tool for the proper functioning of the union's internal market. in the field of competition, the european union has gained a visible and respected position on the international stage. this independent and unified external representation, based on clearly defined competences, enables the union to showcase its true political, demographic and economic power. in view of the challenges of the digital age, the instruments provided for in current competition law need to be thoroughly revised. at the same time, they believe that it is essential to ensure a level playing field in the digital market and to combat abuses related to dominant position and tax optimisation, which will ultimately benefit consumers. i welcome the fact that the competition rules have proved their usefulness over many years of administrative experience on the part of the commission, and have been further developed and consolidated in the case law of the european courts, so that today we can say that they are widely recognised and stable.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union contains in articles 101 and 109 binding rules on competition in the internal market, based on a market economy open to free competition. the european union's competition policy is a basic pillar of the social market economy in europe, providing a means of protecting european democracy by controlling and limiting unfair trading practices associated with monopolies and market dominance, while bringing benefits to consumers, entrepreneurs and workers, encouraging economic growth and innovation, and thus creating the framework within which everyone has a fair chance of success. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy. it also considers the conferral of co-decision powers in competition policy, especially as regards fundamental principles and binding legislative guidelines, to be of particular importance.
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome the report on annual report on eu competition policy, recognising the importance of the competition policy in the eu encouraging fair conditions for all companies to compete in the internal market, by also maintaining a high level of social welfare and protection of working conditions. for that reason, we need to put a stop to social dumping, and ensure that competition policy decisions take particular account of the social impact in remote or isolated regions. we also need to complete the internal market, as there are still areas that are fragmented and incomplete, by ending as soon as possible unjustified market restrictions and distortions of competition. competition policy should aim, therefore, at strengthening social cohesion in the union, also by a better convergence and cooperation among national competition authorities in the eu. and, nevertheless, coherence needs to be achieved between the union’s trade and competition policies and the objectives of its industrial policy. i strongly support the focus to end tax evasion and illegal corporate tax practices that is to be ensured through the eu legislative framework. a democratic strengthening of the competition policy can also be reached through the co-decision power of the parliament in competition policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on eu competition policy because there is a need for increased competition checking and surveillance in the market. the eu was founded as an open social market economy, based on free but fair competition, with the aim of increasing consumer prosperity and citizens' living standards. the pressure of unfair competition on smes, which represent 98% of eu enterprises and 67% of total jobs, needs to be reduced. the data shows that tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens still exist, costing taxpayers €1 trillion a year. trade defence against unfair competition and non-european imports is vital and the european parliament has drawn the commission's attention to this. competition policy must pay particular attention to the objectives of sustainable development and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. it is important that the commission conclude quickly and as comprehensively as possible the proceedings instituted in 2014 against the number of large international companies in relation to the massive tax reductions benefiting them in. moreover, parliament has repeatedly called for the ordinary legislative procedure under the lisbon treaty to be introduced for competition law.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that reiterates eu competition law in order to create fair competition among the member states and to ensure a cohesive and transparent internal market within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the annual report on eu competition policy because eu competition policy contributes to the objectives of the agenda for jobs and growth, including in areas such as the digital single market, energy policy and industrial policy. we invite the commission to support all initiatives on the development of e-government. the promotion and deployment of e-government systems in all member states is essential for the effective monitoring of breaches and for ensuring transparency in the public and private sectors. competition in the telecommunications sector is essential not only to stimulate innovation and investment in networks, but also for affordable prices and service options for consumers. the commission must therefore ensure competition in this sector, including through the allocation of bands. at the same time, a strong interaction between competition enforcement and the internal energy market is needed to remove barriers to the free movement of energy across borders and build the energy union.
in writing. ‒ free and fair competition is one of the fundamental values of the european construction, which has been the basis for the realisation of the huge economic potential of the member states and the common market. its protection by the european institutions must therefore be one of our main objectives. unfortunately, the european parliament does not yet have the necessary powers to determine the situation decisively. however, as direct representatives of the european citizens, we can ask the commission to respect certain principles. one of these is to avoid abuses of dominant positions in order to allow all players, large and small, to be present on the market through anti-trust policies. state aid can also affect free competition, but in some cases it is necessary to avoid the collapse of certain sectors of the member states that employ a considerable workforce. at the same time, the level of charges may constitute an element of imbalance between member states, which is why their harmonisation at an optimal level is necessary. all these provisions must have the best interests of european citizens and the highest possible standard of living at their core. otherwise, competition for the sake of competition cannot produce a prosperous and balanced society.
in writing. ‒ the european union's competition policy is a key pillar of the smooth functioning of the single market and the european economy. the need for free and fair competition to increase consumer prosperity and the living standards of european citizens has been evident since the creation of the first european communities. over time, this policy has become a means of protecting european democracy, as it prevents excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a few actors. the annual report on the european union's competition policy underlines the need for stronger action by the commission in certain areas. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase of equipment and services for the construction and maintenance of the railway infrastructure and the purchase of equipment and services for the construction and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. moreover, the commission should ensure better convergence and cooperation between eu national authorities in this area. a strengthened competition policy can also play an important role in making financial markets safer and more transparent for consumers. i therefore voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the annual report on eu competition policy. the rapporteur welcomes the concern shown by the rapporteur for the sme sector, criticising taxation models which distort competition, creating considerable problems for medium-sized enterprises in particular. the report calls on the commission to ensure that member states implement in a timely manner the new public procurement legislation, as well as the new provisions on the consideration of social and environmental criteria and the division of contracts into lots, in order to stimulate innovation and fair competition and to support smes in public procurement markets, ensuring the best value for money in the use of public funds.
the need for cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue has always been present in europe, and has not been created by the wave of immigration of recent years. europe's societies are diverse, with nations within the member states often not ethnically homogeneous, but rather communities formed over time living side by side and interacting with each other. the need for intercultural dialogue needs to be discussed not only with regard to newly arrived minorities and eu citizens, but also between indigenous national minorities living in europe and the majority ethnic groups in the member states. the report emphasises that intercultural dialogue is a two-way process and benefits both parties. unfortunately, we often find that member states do not want to take account of the willingness to dialogue, the needs and complaints of the national minorities living in their territory. we have to say that this kind of intercultural communication does not work properly, and that is why minorities turn to the european union to moderate this process and help the parties to mutual understanding. we hope to see more openness in this area from the european institutions in the future.
in writing. ‒ the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values is undeniable. the only way we can make these three tools work is with a greater engagement of society as a whole, of multiple actors, such as media, educators, businesses, communities and religious leaders. in this way, not only political actors will have a significant contribution to intercultural dialogue. without a deep knowledge of one's own culture, but also of other cultures, there can be no genuine intercultural dialogue. in this context, the development of educational mobility for students and teachers is an appropriate measure for a better understanding of dialogue and cultural diversity. this can help to encourage interactions, increase diversity and respect for democracy, freedom and human rights, and increase tolerance for universal and cultural values. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to promote the eu's core values in a meaningful way in the face of a number of challenges at european level related to globalisation, migration, religious and intercultural conflicts and the rise of radicalism.
in writing. ‒ cultural diversity plays a key role in the european union, not only as a fundamental feature of european construction, but also as a cultural resource. through the union's treaties, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights, the eu is committed to respecting the rights of minorities and all identities which constitute a richness of the european heritage. the way we gain from this diversity is through a framework of intercultural dialogue. after the conclusion of the european year of intercultural dialogue (2008), all the beneficial activities involving open exchange and interaction between people, groups and organisations from different cultural backgrounds or with different views were discontinued. today's society, especially in the context of the events of the last year, shows us the need for democratic participation that is inclusive and for empowering citizens. intercultural dialogue is the key instrument in achieving this, leading to the cultivation of a deeper sense of inclusion and belonging and thus to the strengthening of democracy. in this respect, the role of education should not be overlooked either, as the people on whom such a policy can have a more profound and lasting impact are children.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position on encouraging european citizens to undertake educational and training activities in the arts and sports for people of all ages, as well as volunteering activities. i believe that this activity is the best way to socialise and involve minorities, disadvantaged groups, marginalised communities, migrants and refugees in the cultural and social life of the community in which they live and allows for learning foreign languages and a better knowledge of cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is now crucial for the future of the eu to adopt intercultural dialogue as a strong and committed objective in an interactive communication within and between cultures. the aim is to train and prepare future generations to be audacious problem solvers. we must address the challenges that european citizens have to face in an effective and innovative way by investing in inclusive, accessible and quality education at all levels and by giving them access to citizenship education, a precondition of peace and a tool of conflict management. moreover, we must support the possibility to acquire civic, social and intercultural skills and competences that should help the citizens of the future to develop ethical and civic values and to become active, responsible and open-minded members of society, respecting diversity and combating social phenomena such as discrimination, violence, radicalism, racism and xenophobia.
in writing. ‒ this report is an attempt to build on the education ministers’ common agreement and combines efforts that are needed in order to prevent and tackle marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and also to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. i agree with this initiative, because it identifies opportunities along with challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all governmental levels as well as at eu level, including the increased use of culture in external actions and eu development agenda. the report puts a particular emphasis on the role of volunteering, sport and arts in strengthening socialisation processes. therefore, the report tackles the issue of education ensuring the involvement of all generations, in particular through lifelong learning opportunities.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that supports education policies as the main vehicle for building reliable and cohesive communities of the future, as well as for preparing them for active citizenship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should be based on its cultural component and that its fundamental values should be promoted through the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education. the common values that structure all member states, such as freedom, social justice, equality, etc., are and will continue to be the future of europe. in this regard, today's report shows the importance for member states to protect and promote cultural heritage through the adoption of harmonised legislation and international agreements, in close cooperation with unesco. i also welcome the report's proposal that the european commission, together with the member states, should continue and give priority to initiatives to support cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and education through the erasmus, europe for citizens, creative europe and horizon 2020 programmes, the european neighbourhood policy etc. programmes, as these initiatives are absolutely beneficial for the integration and preservation of europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the european union has, since its foundation, been based on dialogue between all relevant social actors and cultural diversity. intercultural dialogue is one of the essential tools for ensuring coexistence between the various groups existing at member state level. inclusive education is another tool that ensures the participation of all social groups in the continuous learning process. in the context of the recent immigration crisis affecting the member states, it is essential to strengthen and develop these instruments, which can constitute viable solutions to de-escalate the situation through direct interaction between representatives of the various cultural communities. the european union needs to adopt a strategy to encourage intercultural dialogue to improve communication between different social groups and to develop innovative ways of investing in inclusive, accessible and quality education. in this way, new social groups will be better able to integrate into host societies and become active members of society, contributing positively to the development of their respective countries. at the same time, the negative phenomena of discrimination, violence, radicalism and xenophobia, which are rooted in the lack of accurate information on the various cultural communities, will be tackled more effectively. for these reasons, i consider the present document to be an important element in changing the current situation for the better.
in writing. ‒ in 2008, in the context of the european year of intercultural dialogue, intercultural dialogue was defined as an open and respectful interaction between people, groups and organisations from different cultural backgrounds or with different worldviews. intercultural dialogue is extremely important, especially in a framework such as the eu, a huge heritage of cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity. developing enhanced interaction between the different societies of the eu is crucial to enhancing mutual respect in a context of strong cultural diversity, addressing the complex realities of our societies and the coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs. all means, in particular financial means, should therefore be mobilised to support programmes aimed at developing and strengthening intercultural dialogue. dialogue between different cultures is of utmost importance, especially in the current context of globalisation, migration, religious and intercultural conflicts, as well as the rise of radicalism, in order to create solidarity and cooperation in the face of these diverse challenges. in this regard, i voted in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values, which provides for its establishment and strengthening through multiple measures at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's fundamental values. i agree that the eu, as a global actor, should include culture and cultural exchanges and increase the weight of education in its external relations and development policy as a tool for strengthening common core values. the report advocates the inclusion of intercultural dialogue in the eu's external relations, including in the eu development agenda. it is welcome that the rapporteur, taking into account all the turmoil inside and outside the eu, is seeking to promote the exchange of good practice and to promote a new structured dialogue with all actors on intercultural and interfaith issues.
mr president, the financial crisis has made it necessary to adopt legislative measures at european level. in the process of applying these measures, there have been stumbling blocks, there have been differences in application in the various member states. there were also legal provisions that were partially contradictory. this report addresses these shortcomings and proposes an impact of the legislative framework shaped and adopted during the financial crisis and how it has been applied in different member states, precisely so that, after this assessment, both the legislation and the practices in the member states that did not follow the legislation can be corrected. therefore, we need this assessment, planning and transparency in the legislative process and the exact implementation of measures taken in the economic crisis or other legislative measures after so many years of seeing how the economic crisis has evolved, that is, to adopt measures that are relevant today.
in writing. ‒ following the financial crisis of 2007-2008, a number of legislative initiatives targeting the eu financial services sector were launched with the aim of restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and implementing lessons learned from the crisis. to date, many legislative acts have been successfully finalised and their implementation has already been achieved on time or is due to take place soon. i voted in favour of this report because it assesses the shortcomings observed in the financial services legislative process and highlights certain concerns, in particular that the impact of individual legislative measures and their interactions has not been sufficiently analysed. i consider that a thorough impact assessment of the regulatory framework for financial services is needed and that such an assessment should be repeated periodically.
in writing. ‒ a more efficient financial sector at european level cannot exist without further digitisation of information and increased transparency in the practical use of data and information. however, they should be relevant, accurate, comparable, user-friendly, reliable and timely to ensure a balance in providing consumers with the information they need to choose the products best suited to their needs and to understand the risks involved. on the other hand, the financial system needs financial advisors with adequate professional training to be able to provide clients with advice within financial institutions and the corresponding services. in addition, small and medium-sized enterprises should also benefit from specific financial education programmes to enable them to be initiated in the use of capital markets and to help them understand the costs and benefits of the different services provided by capital market participants in the capital market.
in writing. ‒ although we have an ambitious reform agenda for the eu financial sector that has been launched to strengthen financial regulation and supervision against the background of the 2007-2008 financial crisis, the transposition and implementation of the financial regulatory reform is still ongoing and not yet completed. therefore, i welcome the purpose of the report to ensure that the legislation on financial markets continues to defend the eu from future crises while being effective and efficient in financing the real economy and smes. i believe that the creation of the capital markets union should further strengthen this process, as it is an improvement in channelling funding to the real economy. an efficient and effective financial services framework ensuring financial stability is a prerequisite for increasing (long-term) investment and fostering growth in a competitive european economy. but i have to underline, taking into account the importance of the international framework for the eu framework, that we need to increase the eu’s influence and promote the legislation we have adopted through a democratic process. i welcome the creation of a european public rating agency and i stress the objective of maintaining the highest investor protection standards across markets.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, because it is an important first step to address shortcomings in financial services law-making. it is very important that financial stability and customer protection remain the priorities of the legislators. i support the capital markets union project which will harmonise further financial services legislation, will fill the regulatory gaps and will ensure alternative credit channels for the real economy.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that adjusts existing eu financial services regulation through consistent and coherent policies that work effectively and efficiently, particularly aligned with the needs of small and medium-sized entities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the balance sheet and the challenges associated with the eu financial services regulatory framework as the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and its widespread negative impact were caused, among other things, by the failure to implement appropriate, high-quality financial services regulations to meet the needs of increasingly complex markets and products. the establishment of an efficient and effective financial services regulatory framework, ensuring financial stability, is a prerequisite for increasing (long-term) investment and stimulating economic growth in a competitive european economy. we call on the commission to implement an integrated approach to the cmu and to also address other policy agendas such as the development of a digital single market. the commission should also take into account the latest technological developments. the commission should also take into account cybersecurity threats and ensure that this is an integrated dimension of the eu strategy.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis of 2007-2008 was a test for the european union and its member states. however, the union has demonstrated its ability to respond adequately to this crisis by adopting financial services sector regulations designed to ensure its stability. an evaluation of these regulations is now needed to correct the problems and to create the necessary conditions for the completion of the capital markets union, which will further harmonise european financial services legislation. first, the creation of the regulatory tools necessary to cover areas not covered so far is needed. it also aims to reduce red tape and provide alternative credit channels for the real economy and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. priority should be given to financial stability and consumer protection, and to the application of a coherent risk approach. in order to ensure the quality of the regulatory framework for financial services, certain conditions relating to coordination, planning and transparency of the legislative process must also be met. the completion of the banking union can be a decisive step towards strengthening integrated european financial services and for coordinating the policies of the member states in this field. for these reasons, the present report should be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of capital first appeared in the treaty of rome more than 50 years ago. this freedom is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, so it should be at the heart of the european single market. unfortunately, despite progress in this area, capital markets are still fragmented and generally organised according to national systems. the degree of integration of financial markets has decreased due to the financial crisis, with banks and investors re-orientating themselves towards home markets. in this respect, the creation of a capital markets union is a key initiative in the european commission's work programme. this would ensure a diversification of financing modes within the european economy and reduce costs, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. this would increase financial flows between investors and multiply the number of european investment projects, which would improve the allocation of risk and capital at eu level, allowing europe to better withstand future shocks. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the balance sheet and challenges of the eu financial services regulatory framework: the impact and way forward towards a more efficient and effective eu financial sector regulatory framework and towards a capital markets union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the balance sheet and the challenges associated with the eu financial services regulatory framework. this own-initiative report is a first step in assessing the measures taken by european legislators, but also by international bodies, in the wake of the financial crisis. the rapporteur also includes recommendations on the development of a more effective eu financial sector regulatory framework for the achievement of a capital markets union. i welcome the attention given in this report to the sme sector in relation to the measures taken, but also in view of the improvement of the current legislative framework.
although enterprise policy has been a political priority since the treaty of lisbon, the union is still lagging behind. in 2012, only 31% of entrepreneurs in the union were women. the report clearly indicates that there is room for improvement in this area. i believe that a work-life balance is key to increasing women's participation in the labour market. this will be helped by the creation of affordable and quality childcare facilities. this is an important task today. at the same time, we need to promote an entrepreneurial culture in education, especially in those areas where girls are more likely to study. this is important to boost entrepreneurship and create a new business environment. in order to ensure that real-world data are in line with the europe 2020 employment target of 75%, those tools should be given priority in terms of encouraging women entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ women's entrepreneurship needs increased attention from the authorities, given that equal economic independence is not yet a reality in the european union. equal participation of men and women in the labour market could significantly increase the eu's economic potential, while confirming its fair and inclusive character. i believe that the role of women in today's knowledge-based entrepreneurial economy is very important; this is why it is essential to increase the turnover rate of these companies. women also represent a huge entrepreneurial potential, and entrepreneurship means economic growth, job creation and empowerment of women, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ female entrepreneurship is a powerful source of economic independence that further integrates women into labour markets; moreover, it strengthens their role as business leaders and induces cultural change both inside and outside their companies. however, the eu still lags behind with an entrepreneurial rate of 12%. female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention as equal economic independence is not a given while women’s employment rate of 59% is not in line with the 75% target of eu 2020. of all self-employed, only 31% are female. it is time for member states to recognise the value of female entrepreneurship for their economies and the hurdles that need to be overcome. i strongly believe we must focus on work/life balance measures such as paternity, parental and maternity leaves for the self-employed; and grant access to funding. otherwise, female entrepreneurs will remain an unexploited potential.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the external factors that are hindering european female entrepreneurship. i know very well the obstacles faced by women entrepreneurs because i have been in the business for over 20 years. women have the potential and the anthropological qualities to be a good entrepreneur. the low rate of female entrepreneurship in many member states, despite the fact that in many member states the population is predominantly female, shows that there are still shortcomings. the commission has had good initiatives over the years, such as the network of female entrepreneurship ambassadors and female mentors. i am part of these networks and i can say that these initiatives have brought results. but we still need to invest in education and behavioral change to accept women's involvement in business.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs smart and sustainable economic growth. increasing employment and expanding the entrepreneurial sphere are solutions for a performing economy. the differences between women and men are still evident in the field of entrepreneurship. men are much more inclined to consider independent activities as a viable alternative. it is hoped that in the future there will be no more inequalities in entrepreneurship between women and men.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that supports female entrepreneurship through sustainable and inclusive policies that aim to enable equal economic independence and to develop european entrepreneurship and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the entrepreneurial potential of women in the eu is an under-exploited resource in all member states, including romania. multiple stereotypes and gender discrimination are still a big problem in our societies that discourage women from entrepreneurship. i support the vision of this report and support the efforts that seek to lay the foundations for concrete strategies at european and member state level on the promotion and encouragement of women's entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ it is not the only report on the agenda that is based on difficulties and obstacles to business start-up and financing. both women and young people face difficulties in taking their first steps towards entrepreneurship, from education to excessive bureaucracy, including in the european assistance programmes for these categories. the european commission needs to monitor closely the gender distribution of capital, but at the same time reflect on the possibility of reducing the time wasted from initiative or idea to implementation and financing. it is in our power to facilitate access to information and financial resources for women or young people, and we must take this opportunity to direct the necessary finance to areas where women or young people-led sme ecosystems are needed. it is not complicated to set up a european business centre for women. without a significant budgetary impact, we can integrate gender and age perspectives into national business strategies. i think we can better connect women and young people to structural funds to break a vicious circle of inequality in the system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on external factors that are obstacles to european women's entrepreneurship, as the rate of women's entrepreneurship is low in all member states and reflects untapped potential for growth and prosperity. it is important to understand the european union's need for more entrepreneurs, and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete strategic initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship. women's entrepreneurship deserves special attention in this context, as equal economic independence is not an achievement in the european union and the employment rate for women, at 59,6% in 2014 at eu-28 level, falls short of the employment target of 75%. i want to emphasize the negative impact of the administrative sphere on entrepreneurship. regulations and effective legislation are needed to economically empower women. in addition, they support the implementation of work-life balance policies and an equal distribution of family responsibilities and by highlighting the role of women in promoting equality.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the external factors that are obstacles to european women's entrepreneurship. the report identifies the most important factors hindering the development of entrepreneurship among women in an eu which, unlike the us or china, has a very low entrepreneurship rate (2% in the eu-27 in 2009, compared to 21% in the us or 27% in china). europe's return to sustainable economic growth and job creation depends to a large extent on the growth of european entrepreneurs. in these circumstances, i consider it extremely important to implement measures that lead to the development of entrepreneurship among europeans in general and among women in the eu in particular.
mr president, the higher than 20% youth employment rate in the european union reflects the severity of the main employment challenges that we have to deal with in our countries. it also shows that here, in the european parliament, we must constantly strive to keep these issues on our agenda. among other points, the report rightly identifies the lack of relevant skills for available jobs, and education and training mismatches, as the main shortcomings of the labour and education policies of many member states. another problem that severely affects countries in central and eastern europe, and which we have to deal with urgently, is early school leaving, especially in the case of the more disadvantaged social categories like the roma. i believe that such issues should receive even more focus in the european semester and the employment strategies of member states, so that we make progress towards education systems that keep students in schools, adequately prepare them for professional life and offer them vocational support tailored to the needs of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ 4.5 million young people in the european union aged 15-24 are currently out of work, and 7 million young europeans are neither in employment nor in education or training. these figures are a strong incentive to act as quickly as possible to reduce the extremely high number of young people who are not active in the labour market. all necessary efforts should be made by the authorities to ensure that education systems adequately prepare pupils/students for professional fulfilment and to guarantee close cooperation between education and social services and between employers and pupils/students. effective policies on education, training and skills development, with the support of employers, employment agencies and other stakeholders, are needed to reduce unemployment. i voted in favour of this report because investment in entrepreneurship education is one of the most profitable investments the european union can make.
in writing. ‒ at the end of 2014, the union unemployment rate was 9,9%, while among young people it reached 21,4%, making young people the most affected by the crisis. although they have higher education and skills than previous generations, young people face significant structural obstacles when trying to get quality jobs (according to european and national standards). the mismatch between education and training is a major cause of unemployment among young people. the eu currently has 4.5 million young people (aged 15-24) unemployed and over 7 million young europeans are not in the labour market or in education or training. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on skills policies to combat youth unemployment, as the existence of the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment, together with the existence of two million vacancies in the eu, creates a situation that seriously threatens the social cohesion and economic development of the eu.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing a contradictory situation: statistics show that there are some five million young unemployed and two million vacancies, which is a serious threat to the eu's social cohesion and economic development. on the other hand, we must not forget that the young generations who have grown up in an era of rapid technological progress have not only different potential, talents and skills, but also different values and priorities from those of previous generations. the entry of young people into the labour market and their retention in employment are closely linked to two dimensions: key competences (capacity to adapt, ability to learn how to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, communication) and job-specific competences. as such, i believe that there is a need for programmes and initiatives at european level that bridge the generations, that are open to change, that have well-trained recruitment and employment services with the right skills to understand the new generation.
in writing. ‒ it is about time to raise awareness about the high levels of youth unemployment as one of the most challenging problems in the european union and on the need to develop policy responses, which can better adapt skills to labour market needs, as a way to reduce it. i support the important progressive proposals included in the report, mainly referring to the quality of job offers and internships and traineeships, the support of education systems and dual training systems, the value of education and training as a fundamental right. tackling youth unemployment has to be a top priority if europe does not want to risk losing a whole generation. a first step must be the further strengthening and proper implementation of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. it is fundamental to improve the positive long-term benefits of the opportunities offered to young people, concretely through meaningful training courses that improve their employability, and stable jobs. europe will be a better place if we make equal opportunities a reality for all young people in europe.
in writing. ‒ fighting youth unemployment must not remain a slogan. i believe it is important that investment is directed towards the vocational development of young people and that young people are educated through education systems that are in line with the requirements of the market, of the real economy. planning for education and vocational training is vital to reducing youth unemployment, as is the development of small enterprises and innovative means of providing jobs. i appreciate the report for highlighting the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation and for highlighting the importance of developing jobs based on traditional products, through trades and professions that include traditional and cultural elements. member states and the commission should verify the effectiveness of expenditure on education and training.
in writing. ‒ the generation raised in an era of rapid technological progress has not only potential, talents and skills, but also values and priorities that differ from those of previous generations. the level of youth unemployment is nowadays one of the most challenging problems in the eu, with almost 5 million unemployed young people. at the same time there are 2 million unfilled vacancies. this situation causes a serious threat for the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. the report mentions that there are multidimensional skills which make it possible to enter the labour market and remain employed: key competences, adaptability, learning to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, communication and specific skills related to particular posts or jobs. the report also underlines that there is a need to determine which level of governance has the most effective tools in identifying and describing skills needs. business creation and self-employment also constitute opportunities for youth to participate in the labour market.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that encourages youth business creation and participation in the labour market as a means of social cohesion and economic development of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the union-wide unemployment rate stood at 9,9% at the end of 2014, and the youth unemployment rate was more than twice as high at 21,4%. unfortunately, there are many overqualified young unemployed whose skills do not match the demands of the labour market. practical, entrepreneurial, programming and digital skills are indispensable for professional development, which is why i stress the importance of implementing the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan and the eu digital skills strategy. we encourage member states to integrate new technologies into learning as a matter of urgency and to step up ict and it skills training activities at all levels and across all types of education and training, including for teachers, to provide curricula that are better aligned with digital developments and to motivate young people to study and pursue ict-related careers. i voted for the report on skills policies to tackle youth unemployment and i believe that providing training and equal access to digital tools for all is more important than ever.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of one of the most important and necessary common eu policies, namely tackling youth unemployment through skills development. today's report presents the problems and difficulties of young people in finding a job, a problem that exists in all european states, including romania. as young people have been the most affected by the crisis in recent years at european level, with the unemployment rate reaching 21,4% in 2014, every effort must be made to ensure that education systems adequately prepare students for professional fulfilment. in this context, as the report proposes, member states, regional and local authorities, together with social partners and training providers, should adopt and implement strategies for developing and anticipating skills with the aim of improving young people's skills. i also voted for this report because i think it is very important that member states continue to support and develop the important role that employers and entrepreneurs play in training young people for work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment, as 4.5 million young people aged 15-24 are currently unemployed in the european union, and over 7 million young europeans are not in employment, education or training. it should be borne in mind that young people are the engine of the european economy, so significant investment is needed in their education so that they acquire the professional skills sought after on the labour market. to this end, strong cooperation between educational institutions, enterprises, social partners and authorities is needed to develop more effective and up-to-date training programmes for the acquisition of new skills, as well as to facilitate access to training opportunities and improved systems of continuing vocational and technical education. with this in mind, vocational training activities, such as traineeships, which are a first step in introducing young people to the labour market, should be increasingly promoted in all member states. moreover, fostering entrepreneurship among young people can lead to lower unemployment rates and boost their employability.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the own-initiative report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. we voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to develop more flexible education systems, which allow for the complementing and developing of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career. in this report, the issue of youth unemployment is addressed in the light of globalisation, demographic change, the economic crisis, new technologies and changes in the organisation of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of the prospects it offers. the internet and digital technologies are transforming the world we live in, on all levels and in all areas. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. unfortunately, today, due to online barriers, citizens are unable to benefit from a number of goods and services, so only 15% of them shop online from another country. a fully functional digital single market could contribute eur 415 billion per year to the eu economy and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. last but not least, the increased use of digital technologies can significantly improve citizens' access to information and culture, improve their professional opportunities and offer them a wide range of products.
in writing. ‒ the digital agenda scoreboard shows that eu regions have very different levels of digital connectivity, internet use, human capital, business integration of digital technology and digital public services. regions that score low on these five indicators risk missing out on the benefits of the digital age. current policies and incentives have failed to ensure adequate digital infrastructure, especially in rural areas, with 44.8% of eu households lacking access to high-speed internet. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the preparation of a legislative act on the digital single market, as i believe that the achievement of a digital single market, based on a common set of rules, can boost eu competitiveness with positive effects on jobs, relaunch the single market and reinforce inclusiveness, providing citizens and businesses with new opportunities, in particular through the exchange of innovations. i also mention that the digital revolution is affecting every aspect of our societies, bringing with it opportunities and challenges, and having the potential to further empower citizens, consumers and entrepreneurs in new ways, different from the way this could be done before.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position that trust of users and businesses in the digital environment is vital for the full unlocking of innovation and growth in the digital economy, and one solution to increase this trust is adequate data protection and security standards and a high level of consumer protection and empowerment. these can be achieved through updated legislation for enterprises. we must not forget that the annual revenues generated by e-commerce in the european union amount to eur 500 billion, giving consumers a wider range of choices, especially in remote areas, and smes new opportunities.
in writing. ‒ today, we will be able to guarantee better access for consumers and businesses across europe to the digital single market, creating the right conditions and a level playing field for advanced digital networks and innovative services, and maximising the growth potential of the digital economy. it is very important to have a clear stand on topics such as consumer protection, data protection, big data, infrastructure and investment, media, digital skills and copyright. i welcome the fact that the report goes beyond the commission strategy addressing issues which the commission has neglected, such as platforms, structural changes in society and the impact of digitalisation on the employment world. i am especially satisfied that the issues of workers’ rights in the sharing economy and the parcel delivery sector were included in the report. finally, i believe we must make more efforts on standardisation, patents and on social protection.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market is of utmost importance to the eu. the strategies addressed for the development of the digital single market can lead to effective economic development. the internet increases the speed of commercial exchanges, but also the speed of information exchange between citizens and public administration. the digital single market needs to be developed taking into account social inclusion and the different levels of education in the european area. therefore, i believe that the development of the digital single market must be directly linked to the investments of the cohesion funds. at the same time, the commission must ensure that there is a clear legal framework for the fight against cybercrime and the protection of personal data. the development of technology must not infringe the rights of consumers.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines consumer protection, data protection, infrastructure and investment, media, digital skills and copyright. it goes beyond the commission strategy addressing issues such as platforms, structural changes in society and the impact of digitalisation on the employment world. we have to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the digital single market because europe urgently needs a legislative framework and clear criteria to create a functioning market in this area. the fragmentation of the single market, the fact that all 28 member states have their own digital rules, are major obstacles to development, especially for smes and start-ups. only 1.7% of eu enterprises use digital technologies and only 14% of smes use the internet for sales. to increase global competitiveness, europe needs to build a digital economy, a common set of digital rules, free and open internet access for all smes and eliminate geo-blocking and price discrimination based on geographical location or nationality. i stress the importance of developing european satellite radio navigation systems, investing in fast communications networks and in the digitalisation of the energy sector, meters and smart grids. future digital single market legislation should also create the necessary conditions for type-approval for the installation of ecall in vehicles and the extension of access to 112 emergency services to all european users.
in writing. ‒ this resolution represents parliament’s position on commission’s action plan for achieving a digital single market. specifically this refers to tackling issues such as geo-blocking, the reform of the copyright regime, the faster roll-out of both mobile and wired broadband internet and to incentivising the use of e-commerce services throughout europe. these elements are essential for the eu’s economic competitiveness, growth and more job opportunities for its citizens. it is a balanced resolution that i believe to correctly identify the means to create a single market for digital services and therefore it has my vote.
in writing. – i have voted for this report that will not only improve citizens’ access to information, but will also maximise the growth potential of the digital economy and will improve governance and transparency in the eu and its member states, within a single market.
in writing. ‒ a digital single market must ensure quality services and facilitate the everyday lives of end consumers, encourage innovation and create new opportunities for businesses and citizens. the resolution on the preparation of a legislative act on the digital single market develops aspects related to the actions to be taken to complete the digital single market and the consequences it will have on society and the economy as a whole. as itre s&d coordinator, i support the importance of investments in infrastructure and fast and ultra-fast communications networks, efficient spectrum allocation and management and the rapid deployment of 5g technology and ultra-fast broadband services, high standards of data protection and security of international data transfers, the removal of geo-blocking and improved consumer access to content. in order to reduce the digital divide, we ask the commission to consider a series of measures and legislative revisions: the revision of eu telecoms rules, the revision of the interoperability framework, including the commission's mandates within the european standardisation organisations, and a long-term strategy on the future uses of the different frequency bands that are particularly needed for the deployment of 5g-based networks.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has made the eu's regulation of the digital single market a priority in recent years. in this context, 16 initiatives were launched on various sectoral aspects of the european digital market. these are grouped under three main headings, namely better access for european consumers and businesses to the digital single market, creating the right conditions for advanced digital networks and new services, and maximising the growth potential of the digital economy. the main issues facing member states in these areas are consumer protection, protection of personal data and sensitive information, infrastructure and investment, digital media, digital education, copyright, e-commerce, geolocation, illegal content, interoperability and standardisation, e-government. we must be aware that the process of digitalisation is bringing about structural changes in society and in the employment model. in this context, the eu and the member states need to adapt to the requirements of the current situation. our priority must be, however, first and foremost, to ensure that this process is carried out in the interests of our citizens, creates all the potential benefits for them and does not adversely affect the workforce. only then will the digital single market fulfil its purpose.
in writing. ‒ the rapid evolution of the internet and mobile communications has changed the way users communicate, access information and knowledge, innovate and consume, leading to the expansion and change of the economy, facilitating access for small businesses to a potential customer base of 500 million consumers in the eu as well as to global markets, and giving people the opportunity to develop new entrepreneurial business ideas and models. digital infrastructure is the backbone of the digital single market, therefore it is necessary to develop a digital transformation plan for industry, with a view to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy, to increase efficiency and to unlock untapped potential. building trust in digital technologies is also essential for the development of the data-driven economy, by clarifying rules on data ownership and data portability, and by giving citizens control over their own data. i welcome the achievement of a digital single market, based on a common set of rules, which could boost eu competitiveness, have positive effects on growth and jobs, relaunch the single market and strengthen the inclusive nature of society, offering new opportunities to citizens and businesses, in particular through the exchange of innovations.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the preparation of a legislative act on the digital single market, which is parliament's response to the digital strategy for europe adopted by the european commission on 6 may 2015. the alignment of the european digital market with the single market represents a huge opportunity for eu entrepreneurs and businesses to thrive, but also for the eu labour market to fully recover from the economic crisis and its aftermath. the report responds to the 16 proposals put forward by the commission and develops the issues related to the actions to be taken to complete the digital single market and the consequences that the completion of the digital single market will have on society and the economy as a whole.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr weber, you will remember that in december i asked you a question and i see that you continue to give us advice and speak very nicely here. my question is: don't you think that what you have just said about the refugee and immigrant policy should have been mrs merkel's first thought? now we put conditions: to respect our culture and to respect the conditions of our country, but this condition was not put in the beginning. what do you think? was there a mistake or not?
mr president, the civil war in syria is already entering its sixth year. and last week, we witnessed in horror the tragedy of madaya, which provided yet another example of the madness that war, violence, confrontation can bring to a country. we lived with the image of syrian children starving to death, and we were happy when, finally, a humanitarian convoy managed to enter a besieged city, where nearly 40,000 people had been starving for months. other cities on syria's western border are in the same situation. i repeat here the statement of un secretary general ban ki-moon: "the use of starvation as a weapon is a war crime and must be treated as such". it is clear that we need an immediate political solution and this can only be possible through the implementation of the vienna agreement and resolution 2254, which were adopted with the substantial support of the european union and yours. we need a political solution knowing that only this can create the conditions for a lasting peace. the bombings, including russian ones, indiscriminately destroying civilian targets, construction and also targeting the moderate opposition are counterproductive. a political solution must involve, as you have said, iran, turkey, russia, saudi arabia, the other local and regional actors and in this regard i welcome the un effort for confidence-building measures and wish success to the donors' conference for syria to be held on 4 february. we know very well that peace in syria is the guarantee for the defeat of daesh, it is the guarantee for the reduction of the flow of refugees, and it is equally the guarantee that this madness of violence, which daesh has generated, will be defeated. i wish you luck!
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, let me first of all say that yes, i am trying to indicate some signs of hope because i am really convinced that if we do not identify the reasons for hope on the way ahead, it is very difficult to work on the change that is needed to get to a better place. but, indeed, the way is going to be difficult and long. please do not expect any dramatic turning point any time soon. what we have finally done is to be on the right track, but we are far from having a solution to the war or an end to the war. however it is true that if you look back one year ago to when we had no unity within the international community, no unity in the region and no path, no process, no roadmap, no calendar, then we are certainly in a much better place today, and this allows us to have a sense of direction and to create the conditions for the talks to start, for the roadmap to be implemented, the calendar to be fulfilled. i believe this is our role as the european union, coordinated with all our member states, both those that are sitting at the table and those that are not sitting there. that is also why, for me, it is extremely important to constantly put the issue of the syrian crisis on the agenda of the foreign affairs council to make sure that all 28 are fully involved in the process and that, when we are sitting there, all the european union is present and there is constant feedback both ways. i am glad that we can do the same with parliament because, as you know very well, parliament is for me a very important actor in our external action. but this is, i believe, our role: not so much setting conditions or preconditions, but trying to create the conditions for the talks to start and to be productive, in strong cooperation with the united nations. many of you asked questions about the composition of the opposition’s delegation, the time, the modalities, the formats of the talks, whether the talks will happen on monday of next week or whether they will be delayed. we have obviously discussed all of that, not just with the foreign affairs ministers yesterday but i also discussed these issues personally with staffan de mistura just before he debriefed the security council yesterday. let me also say that there is a specific role for the un special envoy, supported by the support group, but we have, i believe, as the european union, to preserve the role of the united nations in trying to define the modalities and the time of negotiations that they are going to lead. also to guarantee that all the different actors in the region, and internationally, feel comfortable enough with the fact that the leading role of the un guarantees that all are on an equal footing. what is important for us as europeans and what we are making clear is, as i said at the beginning, that in one way or another – that is in the hands of the un special envoy to define – but in one way or another, we manage to find ways of guaranteeing that the entire syrian society, all the different syrian groups – those that were in riyadh at the conference and those that were not, provided that they sign up to the political process and they fight against daesh, al-nusra and the terrorist groups that are concentrally defined as terrorist groups – all of them find their own way of getting into the process and feel ownership. because, as many of you said, the key point is having the syrians decide on the future of the country and also on the present of their country – the syrians, all syrians, meaning also as i stressed, those that are outside the country. what is also important is something that our colleague mr cozzolino said: working on the generations. we are losing generations of syrians. they are losing their lives, they are losing their education, they are losing hope and this is something that syria and the region will pay for, not just for years but for decades to come. this is also why we are investing a lot of our finance, our money, but also our work in education programmes because we have to guarantee that a country that had a very high level of education for the overall population manages to continue to invest in its own future, because when the time comes that we have to work on the reconstruction of the country, we will have to have generations of syrians ready to engage in a very difficult process of material and non-material rebuilding of the country. so the knowledge, the competences, the experience, the education of entire generations has to be taken care of now, because otherwise we will have serious problems in five, 10, 15, 20 years from now. also in terms of radicalisation because the young generations that are experiencing today only war, conflict, starvation, and life in refugee camps in the best option might not necessarily be the best citizens of tomorrow. so this is clearly not only a humanitarian must, but also a clear interest that we have in investing too in our own security and stability for the future. let me finish by saying that many questions were raised relating to debates that we will have either later tonight – the tensions between saudi arabia and iran and the regional developments linked to that – and the situation in turkey, the situation of religious minorities beginning with christians: all things on which we have debates today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. here let me stress again one thing that i have shared with you already in the past. i very much enjoy spending time with you and exchanging views and i find it extremely useful for my work both in the commission or in the council as european union high representative, but i would suggest as a former member of parliament, not the european parliament but a national one, i would humbly suggest that you find a way of defining a calendar for foreign policy debates that manages to focus on some key issues, that manages also to communicate to the outside world that parliament is focusing on foreign affairs priorities month after month. this is a humble suggestion that maybe we could find a way of organising our work in order not to repeat similar discussions over the two or three days that we spend together every month. let me finish with one point. someone raised a very specific point on support to jordan in relation to trade. let me say that we discussed this at length yesterday with nasser judeh, the foreign minister of jordan, in a bilateral meeting and with the foreign affairs council. i had the honour and the pleasure to discuss this with her majesty the queen of jordan last week in brussels. this is going to be a proposal that i will put forward to support jordan not only through financial support, but also with some exceptional temporary and targeted measures to increase and facilitate their trade with the european union. they are developing in view of the london conference a very creative and ambitious plan to create job opportunities together for jordanians and syrian refugees, which i believe is going to be extremely important to making integration of syrian refugees in the host communities sustainable in the mid-term, in the long term, without creating a conflict in these host communities, because the perspective of hosting syrians in large numbers for a long time in a country that is surrounded by crisis and is not rich in natural resources in any particular way might create social or economic conflicts that we need to prevent. i hope we can count on the support of this parliament to work in this direction as well; not only financial support, direct support, for the hosting of refugees and the protection of refugees in the case of jordan, but also trade measures that can help jordan in the mid-term to invest in job creation and economic investment. i will finish here, thanking you very much for the input that is for me extremely precious for the way ahead, hoping that the way forward will be as encouraging as it has been in these last three to four months, and that we will manage, in partnership with our main friends and partners in the region and on a global level, to facilitate and move this very difficult process forward, but again, finally, i think on the right track.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, before i get into the details of this topic, let me say a few words on what happened in vienna on saturday, where we showed that, exactly six months after having reached an agreement with iran on their nuclear programme, iran fulfilled the commitments we had agreed on. the iaea verified this compliance and the international community, through the e3+3, the joint commission that i coordinate and that i, and my successor after me, will continue to coordinate for the whole duration of the agreement, verified that this has been done and therefore that the deal has been implemented. let me reiterate that six months ago there were many people, in europe, the region and the world, who were deeply sceptical as to whether we would ever manage to implement this agreement. they were betting on the possibility that iran would not follow up the agreement with concrete deeds. let me say that most of all it is a nuclear negotiation, a nuclear agreement, and this is the core of our satisfaction: the fact that we have prevented a major risk of nuclear proliferation and maybe even the possibility of a conflict in the region. this is the first reason for satisfaction, but there is another element of satisfaction linked to the fact that we have shown that multilateralism and diplomacy can work. as we saw in the previous debate, not only can it work in terms of reaching an agreement, it can also deliver in terms of implementation. so, in these difficult times there is good reason for hope. and let me also say, as i get to the real issue of our debate, though the two are closely connect, that there are two other elements for hope. one is the door that now opens for relations between iran with the rest of the world – starting with the europeans – and for us europeans to engage in iran in different ways and in different sectors. finally, last but not least – and perhaps most importantly – this agreement could open the way to a different kind of relationship in the region. here we come to the issue of tonight because, after managing to hold negotiations for 13 years, with difficulties and ups and downs and a lot of scepticism, and achieving that historic result against all odds, we now have to invest in the possibility of a different kind of cooperation in the region. we are not naïve; we know very well that this will not be easy, that this will not happen overnight and that we will face obstacles and setbacks. the willingness of iran to further cooperate on regional matters will have to be tested. but the fact that they have stated this willingness is already a step forward in respect to the past. their will to implement the agreement they signed in july will also be tested. but just think back one year ago. many believed we would never manage to agree on a strong deal with iran, a verifiable and implementable deal, and we proved them wrong. if we keep working hard and together – united as europeans and with the rest of the international community – i am sure we can keep surprising the sceptics somehow. dialogue among all regional powers, starting with saudi arabia and iran is – we are united in believing – the only way out of the current turmoil in the middle east. in the past few years, a struggle for regional hegemony has mixed with revamped ethnic and confessional tensions. terrorist groups such as daesh are fostering sectarianism to throw the region into even greater chaos and bolster their own power. international disputes between saudi arabia and iran can easily play into the narrative of a war of religion between sunni and shia muslims, and we know this very well. the risks of this are huge. new frictions can block the difficult path towards peace in syria, as we have just discussed, but also in yemen. we did not discuss that this time, but i think we will tomorrow. these frictions can destabilise iraq and lebanon, the two countries in the region that are most exposed to sectarian tensions. they can destabilise entire muslim communities worldwide, from asia to africa, in the horn and in the sahel. bilateral tensions can, in this way, potentially inflame the region even more, prevent political processes from either starting or yielding results, and potentially inflame the war. this is why we are trying to contain and de-escalate these tensions in close coordination among ourselves as europeans, with all the member states. we are ensuring that we, our international partners, including the united states and, to mention just one, the foreign minister of indonesia – whom i had on the phone just before her trip to tehran and saudi arabia a few days ago – send a similar message to try and facilitate the containment and the de-escalation of the conflict. this shows how important this issue is in at least three continents, if not four, because potentially this could inflame communities around the world. as you may know, we reacted immediately on 2 january 2015 to the execution by the authorities of the shia cleric, sheikh nimr al-nimr, and 46 other individuals, most of whom had been convicted on terrorism charges in relation to their links to al-qaeda. as i expressed in the statement that i issued on the same day, the death penalty can in no way be sustainable or an efficient response to crime or terrorism. the eu opposes capital punishment under any circumstances, and we shall continue to consistently advocate for the universal abolition of the death penalty. this also refers to iran, whose human rights record is worrying. this is the message that i conveyed, not only to the foreign minister of saudi arabia, but also to the foreign minister of iran, whom i contacted at that time. the specific case of sheikh nimr al-nimr raises very serious concerns regarding issues such as freedom of expression and the respect of basic civil and political rights. these should be safeguarded in all cases. also let me stress that, in the framework of the fight against terrorism, we have also taken an immediate position on the reactions in iran because nothing can justify an attack on embassies or consulates, as happened with the saudi embassy in tehran and the consulate in mashhad. in the conversations i had with both the iranian and the saudi foreign ministers in the wake of these events, i stressed the need for iran to abide by its international obligations. this also means ensuring the protection of diplomatic premises in all circumstances. in my phone call with both sides and in the contacts we had afterwards (we met with mr zarif over the weekend, among other people) the main message i passed on was to try to manage the bilateral tensions without inflaming the risk of spill-overs, especially in the region, to preserve our efforts for peace in syria and yemen and to avoid further destabilisation in the area, especially with regard to iraq and lebanon. i was given reassurances by both sides on the need to find a way of preserving this process. as we have said, for the syria process to begin and have some chance of succeeding, it must be supported by all the regional players. for the same reason, to try to find common ways of protecting the process, early this year i discussed the situation, and the risks of it degenerating, with the un special envoy for syria, staffan de mistura, the secretary-general of the arab league, ministers of many arab and african countries, and with some asian ministers. we are also coordinating messages and actions, not only with our partners, but first and foremost among europeans. this was the case yesterday at the foreign affairs council, where we discussed and agreed on common lines in this regard. finding a negotiated solution to the current conflicts in the middle east is in everybody’s interest, especially everyone in the region. protracted war can only benefit terrorists of all kinds, and it can only let instability spread further well beyond the borders of the middle east; we in europe know that very well. this is not a zero-sum game, and this is the other strong message we are passing on to our iranian and saudi friends. if the wars in syria and in yemen and the tensions in the region do not stop, everybody will lose. there is not a single place in the region that can benefit from the escalation of tensions. the only alternative to a win-win solution, where everybody sees their interests recognised, is chaos and further chaos. it took us months to gather all regional powers around the same table to discuss peace in syria. as we said, the same goes for libya, a country from which we had encouraging news today since we managed to unite the region’s international actors in a process along similar lines to that which we put together for syria. we cannot afford to waste any of these positive trends and we cannot afford to expose them to tensions that need to stay contained – if possible at a bilateral level. the european union will keep doing all that we can to promote dialogue, and fight sectarianism. this is because we have learned our own eu lesson. i said this in the previous debate, about colombia. this is the eu lesson. it is only regional cooperation that brings peace and prosperity, and we have experienced this for 60 years now. only through this kind of regional understanding, cooperation and partnership did we manage to overcome centuries of war and conflict and experience peace in our region. this is our way. we believe it is regional cooperation – and never confrontation or competition – that is beneficial for all. this is particularly true for an area of the world like the middle east.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, tensions between saudi arabia and iran have reached a new high. saudi arabia and some of its sunni arab allies severed diplomatic relations with tehran earlier this year, all after protesters, angered by riyadh's execution of a prominent shiite leader on january 2, attacked the saudi embassy in tehran. the execution of 47 people, including sheikh al-nimr, by beheading and shooting, is the largest execution carried out by saudi arabia since 1980. it is not necessary to recall that we reject the death penalty categorically and, as the high representative has said, that commitment must be respected. it should also be borne in mind that iran's record on capital punishment is not at all glorious. last year, even as progress was made on nuclear, iran recorded 1,084 executions. that is why i am glad that we were able to add iran to today's debate, because the initial proposal coming from our friends on the left - communists, socialists, liberals and greens - was to discuss only saudi arabia and to criticize what is happening there. i believe that we are now facing a new phase in the confrontation between the shiites and the sunnis. i know we have a hard time accepting the political force of this religious divide. i think that is a mistake and we must take very seriously what the high representative also said, namely our attempt to settle this conflict, because it is a conflict which will have dramatic consequences for us in the years to come.
madam president, the recent escalation of tensions between iran and saudi arabia is a deeply worrying development that looms over a region already marked by serious crises and risks exacerbating the sunni-shia confrontation at the regional and global level. the only way out of the crisis is for the eu to make its own contribution to the negotiations between the two sides. we must prevent the vienna process on syria from being compromised and iraq from becoming again a theatre of confrontation between shiites and sunnis. the nuclear agreement with iran has confirmed the dividends of peace, of negotiations, and the european union is entitled to play a pragmatic role in relations with the two sides to prevent further escalation.
madam president, the european union, through its institutions, has always been concerned with respect for the fundamental rights and values enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. the presumption of innocence is a right, but also a value, which has received increased attention from both the member states and the european institutions. strengthening it, and identifying mechanisms to guarantee it throughout the criminal process, has been a serious challenge in highly complex and at the same time diverse judicial systems. on the basis of the premise that judicial decisions must be considered equivalent, regardless of the member state in which they were taken, we understand the need to develop judicial cooperation in this field between the member states of the european union. to this end, it is necessary to establish common minimum standards on the right to a fair trial throughout the criminal proceedings. we therefore consider it extremely important that any person accused of a crime should have access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings, but not least that he should be given the opportunity to communicate with third parties and in particular with consular authorities during his deprivation of liberty. the adoption of this directive constitutes an additional guarantee of respect for the right to a fair trial, so that a person is not considered guilty by a public authority before the conviction is established by a final judgment.
madam president, as rapporteur for the epp group on mrs stihler's report, i would like to thank and congratulate the three rapporteurs, mrs ford, mrs stihler and mr antonio lópez, for all the work they have done over the past few months. the new gas appliances regulation is an example of union harmonisation legislation, ensuring both the free movement of gas appliances and the placing on the market or putting into service of gas appliances that meet higher consumer safety standards, thereby also reducing gas safety risks and ensuring, at the same time, a more rational use of energy. from simple portable stoves to large power plants for very large buildings, the current stock of gas-consuming appliances in the european union is 470 million and growing, with over 30 million units sold each year. i am pleased and very grateful that the rapporteur, mrs stihler, has embraced the idea of introducing and amending the text from the point of view of consumer safety, adding amendments relating to the precautions that should have been and must be taken to avoid and prevent the poisoning of people with gases, including carbon monoxide, and the leakage of any substances that could cause health and safety problems, carbon monoxide poisoning being a major cause of death associated with the use of gas appliances. the new legislation will clearly benefit european citizens.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you spoke about the importance of the refugee crisis. at the same time, you propose to stop negotiations with turkey. i ask you concretely: how do you see the solution to the crisis if you exclude a partner like turkey from this problem? and secondly, what do you think: shouldn't the president, the prime minister of the netherlands have said something to us about the fact that every country is now making its own border? basically, schengen is dissolving. i didn't hear the president's position. what do you think?
blue-card question.– mr sylikiotis, turkey certainly does not respect its engagements, nor does greece guard its border – the external border of the european union. this is a crisis for the european union: it is a crisis for the schengen area, it is going to be a crisis for the euro currency and then it will be a huge crisis for the european union. we have to stop it now. do you not think that we have to guard and defend the external borders of the european union in order to preserve this wonderful organisation for europeans?
in writing. the dutch presidency must take concrete steps to create the digital single market and to implement the energy union projects. these two markets will have a positive effect on growth and job creation in innovative fields. the dutch presidency must actively engage in achieving the union's energy union objectives by promoting common energy market rules. the eu must take decisive steps to strengthen its energy policy based on competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. the european investment fund is a tool in the hands of the dutch presidency to encourage the promotion of investment projects in the modernisation of energy infrastructure, cross-border network connectivity and to promote technologies that promote energy efficiency. simplification and harmonisation of european digital rules and standards must be the top priority for building the digital market. the dutch presidency should focus on the rights of consumers and cross-border digital workers. further integration of the internet single market and strengthening consumer confidence in digital technologies, ensuring security, transparency and privacy are issues to be taken into account. consumers should be informed about the use of their data, in particular in the case of services provided in exchange for data.
in writing. the dutch eu presidency has the opportunity to tackle a number of impactful energy and telecommunications proposals during its term. in the field of telecommunications, a modern regulatory framework for telecommunications companies is needed to strengthen competition, competitiveness and investment in this sector. it is also necessary to review the wholesale market for roaming services and to propose a harmonised framework for spectrum allocation, and for egovernment we need an ambitious and comprehensive action plan. the dutch presidency also set out to contribute to the energy union objectives of reducing energy dependency and ensuring affordable energy. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the energy union strategy, which will be presented in the next few months. another legislative proposal with an impact on european industry is the revision of the ets. i stress that we must ensure that the proposed objectives and targets are not met to the detriment of european industry and jobs.
in writing. the dutch eu presidency has a crucial role to play in harmonising member states' positions on the refugee issue, with the primary aim of safeguarding the schengen area. today, the schengen area is in danger, and its collapse means the collapse of the union. the dutch presidency takes up its mandate at a time of unprecedented challenges for the eu. its top priority, the integrated approach to migration and international security, is well-defined but does not sufficiently reflect the urgency of the measures needed. we need more ambition. we have to acknowledge the eu's failure to address the refugee crisis. we have failed to formulate a common european response to the refugee crisis. we must say it loud and clear: not all migrants who come to europe can stay in europe. we need a clear rule to distinguish between refugees and economic migrants. we have a moral duty to provide protection to refugees from syria, but we also have to identify economic migrants who need to be directed back to their home countries. the dublin mechanism needs to be reviewed as a matter of urgency on the basis of the ec proposal expected in march. a radical reform of frontex is needed to ensure effective protection of the eu's external borders. in this way, by preserving the area of free movement, we prevent the disintegration of our union.
i have an announcement to make on the consultation. following the consultation with the political groups, i wish to put the following proposal to the house for a change to tomorrow’s agenda. the debate on the oral question on the opening of the fta negotiations with australia and new zealand is to be wound up by a resolution to be put to the vote in the february i part—session. are there any objections?
ok, this is your argument. then i will put to the vote the proposal for february ii. (the proposal was approved)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
commission.– madam president, the adoption of the delegated regulation without further delay would put an end to the uncertainty created by the deferral of the date of adoption which the legislator had already set for 20 july 2015. the delegated regulation would set clear rules for operators and enforcement authorities and would enable the manufacturers to anticipate its enforcement, in particular for the labelling requirements. the commission confirms the commitment already given by its services to consult the european food safety authority in early 2016 on the totality of the compositional requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food, including with respect to the sugar levels and taking into account the latest scientific evidence. on the basis of efsa’s advice, the commission will be able to revise as appropriate the compositional requirements for these foods.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ‒ the development of crossborder cooperation aims to support the fight against terrorism and international crime. we must remember that europe is also attractive to investors because of the legislative framework that preserves and promotes data exchange to guarantee increased security for citizens. in order to achieve this objective of cooperation and to continue development in all sectors in a secure framework, the union needs to support a system of exchange of information as effective as possible, which, in the case of latvia, has also developed on the basis of decision 2008/615/jha. given that this country has already fully implemented the fundamental principles of data protection in its legal system, completed the vehicle registration questionnaires and, moreover, in a pilot test, obtained a successful assessment, i consider that it can now provide personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha on the automatic exchange of data. i support the european objective of cooperation and security and that is why i voted in favour of this report on the launch of automatic exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data (vrd) in latvia, as it will strengthen cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that will step up cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime through the launch of automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this legislative proposal that will implement methods of combating cross-border crimes, support the data supply in regard to vehicle registration data and advance in initiating a common database of vehicle registration data at a european level.
in writing. ‒ a viable european union cannot exist without an effective judiciary. the ongoing legislative work of the european union supports the functioning of the procedural framework, and the legal pillars need to be strengthened and applied uniformly in order to recognise the freedoms of citizens on which the union is built. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle for avoiding arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings, as well as a principle underpinning the protection of the right to a fair trial. this proposal for a directive is all the more important as there is currently in many member states a reduction in the rights of suspects and accused persons and an erosion of the principle of the presumption of innocence, with the violation also occurring in the media. both the presumption and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings are intended to guarantee a certain minimum level of protection in all member states and to strengthen the rights of accused persons. i therefore conclude that we need to ensure that member states have adequate legislation to prevent such harm, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the removal of a specific reference to presumption of facts or law concerning criminal liability (reversal of the burden of proof) from the operative part of the text: this was a key achievement. similarly, the agreement on the text of the right to remain silent represents a significant improvement on the commission proposal and the council’s general approach. with regard to public references to guilt undermining the presumption of innocence and the role of the media, the result is satisfactory. the same goes for the text agreed upon in relation to in absentia trials. effective procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings at eu level remain crucial to establish the appropriate balance in the eu between repressive measures and the individual’s right to a fair trial. the adoption of rules governing the presumption of innocence is an important step in establishing that balance.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings is a highly important issue and concerns the life and dignity of persons. i voted for the report because i believe that there is a need for better implementation in all member states of article 11 (1) of the universal declaration of human rights adopted by the un in 1948. i believe in the need for suspects or accused persons to enjoy adequate protection against incriminating public statements prior to final conviction. member states should ensure that suspects or accused persons appear or are presented in the courtroom before and during the trial in an appropriate manner, as handcuffing or holding in a glass box creates the impression of guilt before being tried. i also believe in the report's provision regarding the defendant's right to remain silent. this right shall not prejudice the right to a fair trial. the right to remain silent cannot be used against the person in any way.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that guarantees a minimum level of protection for the principle of presumption of innocence in all member states. this is a fundamental right that represents the key to preventing arbitrary judgments and any abuse of process in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims to set a common set of regulations across member states in order to enforce the presumption of innocence and further rights in criminal procedure trials.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is one of the concepts underlying the legal systems of the eu member states. however, its application in practice faces a number of difficulties linked to possible infringements, sometimes unintentional, of this right. one of the main issues that arise is the violation of the right to remain silent in the context of which it can lead to the indictment of a suspect. another issue concerns ensuring that punitive measures are proportionate to the amount of damage caused. problems also arise when excessive media exposure of a suspect, sometimes produced with a significant contribution from public authorities, unduly infringes the right of defence of the suspect. in any event, the burden of proof in a trial must remain with the prosecution, in accordance with the principles of law existing at european level. the use of coercive measures to obtain evidence directly from the accused is not compatible with european practices and should lead to the invalidation of that evidence. at the same time, the right to be present at one's own trial, under criminal proceedings, must be guaranteed, except where the accused person waives this right. the adoption of this report is an additional guarantee of respect for the rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the functioning of the european union's single market for distribution is intrinsically linked to the strengthening of cooperation between the various parties involved and could be optimized by introducing common definitions for the harmonisation and simplification of regulations on goods across the market, as proposed in this regulation. recent developments in the field of communications and the need to adapt personal protective equipment (ppe) to its end-users require the implementation of specific tools to enable end-users to have a correct understanding of how ppe is used, in particular to protect themselves against workplace risks. if workers are aware of these issues and are properly and appropriately informed, they will not only be protected but also involved in matters that directly concern them. the safety of workers can only be guaranteed by means of instruments of undeniable effectiveness, since accidents at work are often caused not only by the non-use of adequate protection systems but also by their incorrect use. i voted in favour of the proposed measures, which ensure that the existing directive cannot give rise to interpretations which undermine its effectiveness and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aligns the current legislation to the provisions of the goods package adopted in 2008 and in particular to the decision 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products. this concerns requirements for the design and manufacture of personal protective equipment (ppe) which is being made available on the market in order to ensure the protection of users and rules on its free movement in the union. it includes rules on market surveillance and obligations for economic operators as well as employers. the committee vote was uncontroversial. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that provides technical clarifications for the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report on ppe (personal protective equipment) according to which all member states should improve their current regulations, taking into consideration that health and safety protection is extremely important for all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting today in favour of the report on personal protective equipment, as i believe it is extremely important that legislation in this area is clear and comprehensive. the legislation in this area is based on an eec directive from 1989 which has been supplemented over the years, which has left this legislation with gaps and provisions that make the bureaucratic process difficult. in this context, the completion, clarification and simplification of the legislation will bring major benefits to both the manufacturers and the beneficiaries of such protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ the way in which consumer products are marketed in the member states must be a matter of permanent concern to the european institutions. in this respect, european legislation needs to be aligned with the provisions of the legislative package adopted in 2008, in particular decision (ec) no 768/2008 on the common framework for the marketing of products. it concerns in particular the requirements for the design and production of personal protective equipment which is being placed on the european market for the first time, as well as the rules on free movement within the union. they include provisions relating to the supervision of marketing and compliance with the obligations of the economic operators and companies involved. not included are products for self-defence, a number of household products for personal use, some decorative or craft products. the main issue is the implementation of these rules in practice, which the commission must actively monitor. however, the adoption of the current report is an important step forward in this area and supports citizens by enriching the range of safe and certified products they can choose from. the same applies to the report on appliances consuming gaseous fuels.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment (ppe), which is the european parliament's opinion on directive 89/686/eec, which has fully harmonised the placing of personal protective equipment on the eu market since 1989. the report adopted by parliament contributes to the updating of the legislation on ipr and clarifies the role of economic operators and the powers of market surveillance authorities to track and return unsafe goods entering the single market.
in writing. ‒ the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy and creates 476 000 jobs in the gas appliance sector alone. the european union aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for appliances consuming gaseous fuels. it requires clear and detailed rules which will become uniformly applicable at the same time throughout the union. the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers should be identical in all member states. the text, which is in line with the single market act, will be strengthened from the point of view of consumer safety by adding amendments related to the precautions to be taken to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning in people, which is the main cause of deaths associated with the use of gas appliances in europe. all the measures proposed in the report are appropriate means to achieve transparency of european union legislation and to ensure the free movement of gas-consuming appliances, which is why i voted in favour of replacing the directive.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aligns current legislation to the provisions of the goods package adopted in 2008 and in particular to decision 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products. it applies to domestic and non-domestic appliances intended for a number of specified applications burning gaseous fuels and to fittings designed to be incorporated into such appliances. it concerns the placing on the market of these products and protection of consumers while using the products concerned. our main achievements concern rules to prevent gas poisoning and the leakage of any substances harmful to health and safety. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report with regard to appliances that use gaseous fuels taking into consideration that the gas sector is an important sector in the eu economy. the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will regulate the gas appliances sector by creating a single market which will have a positive impact on the european union in terms of businesses and consumers.
in writing. i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on appliances burning gaseous fuels which will replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive is an example of union harmonisation legislation ensuring the free movement of gas-consuming appliances. the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy and creates 476 000 jobs in the gas appliance sector alone.
in writing. ‒ the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and ensuring the free movement of these products in the eu are an example of the need to harmonise european legislation. the union is working towards better regulation to ensure the free movement of these products. all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in this regulation, which will enhance product quality and human safety. it is noted that member states still retain their competence to regulate other aspects of cable installations such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection, although they opt for regulation. the choice is welcome as it will eliminate unnecessary transposition costs and impose clear and detailed rules that will be uniformly applicable throughout the union. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that both for these proposed measures and for the change of the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation, it is appropriate to simplify the regulatory framework substantially and avoid the risk of divergent transposition.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aligns current legislation to the provisions to the goods package adopted in 2008 and in particular to decision 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products. it applies to new cableway installations and covers subsystems and safety components which are new to the union market when they are placed on the market. the regulation does not apply to cableway installations of historical construction, installations intended for agricultural or forestry purposes, cableway installations for the service of mountain shelters and huts intended only for the transport of goods and specifically authorised persons and on-site or mobile equipment exclusively designed for leisure and amusement purposes and not as a means for transporting persons. the new regulation improves market surveillance and safety for consumers and other users of cableway installations. a main achievement is the inclusion of the explicit mentioning of the precautionary principle, as well as enhanced safety for consumers and other users. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report as it sets out to harmonise the conditions of placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will facilitate free movement of cable installations and will increase efficiency in the market of subsystems.
in writing. ‒ cable installations for passenger transport are no longer an image that belongs exclusively to tourist resorts or mountain areas with limited access. lift systems such as funiculars, cable cars, cable cars, gondolas and chairlifts contribute to citizens' mobility by tackling the challenges normally associated with traditional urban transport such as congestion and poor air quality. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to harmonise the arrangements for placing on the internal market subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and the conditions under which they can move freely within the european union. personally, i can only welcome such a measure, which will facilitate the adoption of this mode of transport in the urban environment, where we are faced on a small scale with the most serious pollution problems, which have serious implications for the health of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cable installations, which is an example of harmonisation of union legislation. the regulation adopted by the ep aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of safety components and subsystems for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu.
in writing. ‒ granting a requesting country the benefit of the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance by adding it to the list of gsp+ countries is an important step in that country's development, which is why the union wants to ensure that it supports the strengthening of a democratic system and that all the measures that follow from this are geared towards the safety of citizens and the respect of their fundamental rights. however, in the kyrgyz republic, assessments by several bodies, including the committee against torture (cat), the committee on the elimination of racial discrimination (cerd), the international labour organisation committee on the application of standards (ilo cas), the committee on the rights of the child, have made it clear that this country still has substantial processes to demonstrate that it wants to improve the lives of its citizens and strengthen a system of law. the presence of torture, the exploitation of children, the violation of the right to defence and the discrimination against ethnic minorities cannot be accepted. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the objection to the application of a generalised system of tariff preferences to kyrgyzstan.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution on generalised tariff preferences taking into consideration that the kyrgyz republic has ignored the european parliament’s resolution of 15 january 2015 on the country’s homosexual propaganda bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion taking into consideration that the parliament of the kyrgyz republic has ignored the resolution on 15 january 2015 with regard to the individual right to privacy, as guaranteed by international human rights law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i am aware of the provisions and benefits of the gsp+ programme, but also of the kyrgyz republic's human rights problems. i believe that the european union must respond with one voice to this issue, which is one of the most important foundations of the eu. as stated in the document adopted today, the oversight bodies of the relevant conventions have identified significant deficiencies in the kyrgyz republic's compliance with the obligations under the gsp+ convention and consider that those deficiencies need to be addressed in order to effectively implement the programme.
in writing. ‒ the application of a generalised system of tariff preferences (gsp) by the european union is a useful tool for developing trade relations with third countries. such agreements between the eu and other states are likely to remove barriers to free trade and increase the union's influence worldwide. the conclusion of such agreements implies that third states respect certain european values and rules, including in the area of democratic governance. the commission is now proposing to promote such an agreement, from the gsp to gsp+ in relation to kyrgyzstan. despite the clear benefits of such a measure, a number of internal problems persist, calling into question the timeliness of this important step. in concrete terms, this is the continuation of reprehensible practices such as torture and imprisonment, corruption in the judicial sector, high death rates in detention, ethnic conflicts, discrimination against minorities (including sexual), poor treatment of minors. in these circumstances, the present resolution rightly notes that there is a need to reconsider the measure envisaged by the commission and to support the remediation of the areas of shortcomings in this country. for this reason, the resolution is timely and should be supported.
in writing. ‒ poor nutrition is currently the leading cause of disease and mortality worldwide, while global food security is an important objective of the union and action in this regard, given the impact on this segment of the population, should be taken in consultation with global research bodies, taking into account in particular the questioning of breastfeeding and the worsening of childhood obesity. in addition to the fact that labelling and marketing of products should be reviewed in line with the world health assembly's recommendations on foods for infants and young children, it cannot be overstated that transparency is needed in the eu decision-making process by providing public access to commission meeting documents during the process of drafting the delegated regulation. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union needs to clarify and adapt these aspects of the health and optimal nutrition of its citizens, especially of categories such as infants and young children, who are a particularly vulnerable population with regard to endocrine disruptors and other contaminants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the specific compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food. the world health organization clarifies that healthy food is a primary step in the good and healthy development of a baby. a primordially negative factor of obesity for children is sugar added in the early stages of developing, thus the amount of sugar added to baby foods should be reduced.
in writing. ‒ according to a report created by the commission, one in three children aged between 6-9 years old in eu is overweighed or obese. consequently, i voted for this motion as it is necessary to implement a set of rules in order to diminish these risks.
in writing. ‒ there is a childhood obesity crisis affecting a large number of children in europe and storing up health problems for tomorrow’s adults. infant and childhood diet profoundly affects child health and future eating habits. too much sugar in baby foods can lead to over-consumption of sugar and inappropriate calorie intake in the long term, causing obesity and increasing the risk factor for conditions such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and some cancers. the sugar limits set for baby foods can have major consequences, so we need to get them right. we cannot ignore the big discrepancy between the recent who recommendations and the commission’s proposal. i am delighted a majority of colleagues joined me in backing this resolution and look forward to the commission’s revised proposal.
in writing. ‒ food safety of products traded within eu member states is one of the main objectives of the european institutions. regulation in the food sector should take into account the highest standards in the field. moreover, regulations on baby food must take special safety standards into account to the fullest extent possible, because any escape can cause unimaginable tragedies. to this end, the labelling of baby food marketed at european level should be as detailed as possible in order to avoid the use of certain substances by infants and young children. more stringent control of sugar intake by infants and young children, which can lead to obesity, is also needed. a zero tolerance for pesticides in food is required. all food safety decisions must be taken in a transparent manner, to allow all stakeholders to participate in the decision-making process. in order to support these wishes and to improve the commission delegated regulation in this area, it is necessary to adopt this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the political and cooperation agreement between the european union and the andean community has also resulted in this welcome resolution on the promotion of peace-building in colombia. maintaining stability is a complex process that needs to be worked on in several stages, from addressing the problems of illegal armed groups and drug trafficking to transitional justice, then alternative and rural development and, of course, demobilization and reintegration of former combatants, including through psychosocial programmes for child soldiers and female combatants who have suffered sexual abuse. all forms of suffering caused by such conflicts must be condemned and it is important to take into account in particular the right of victims of the conflict to full, genuine and fair reparation for the physical, moral and material damage suffered. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must support the full and complete implementation of the peace agreement and the efforts of the colombian government and the farc to reach the agreements signed so far on political participation and democratic openness, thereby providing a positive example of a conflict resolution process.
in writing. ‒ after more than one year and a half of negotiations, the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia have finally reached a ground-breaking agreement on transitional justice, which is a definitive step forward to a conclusive peace in the long-lasting armed conflict in latin america. the transitional justice agreement has resolved some of the most serious sticking points and makes any derailment of the peace process highly unlikely. i strongly support the call for a bilateral and definitive ceasefire agreement and for starting a similar process with the eln (national liberation army) guerrillas in order to have a complete and lasting peace in colombia. the eu cannot let this historic moment get away. we must give full support to the talks that will put an end to 50 years of armed conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that supporting the peace process for the benefit of the eu's political, economic and trade partners is and will be one of the most important foreign policies of the european union. in this regard, today's report presents the current unstable situation in colombia, the measures taken by the colombian government to improve it and the importance of colombia in its relationship with the eu. i also welcome the intention of european states to create a trust fund to serve the post-conflict phase, which is open to participation by communities and civil society organisations and which takes into account the priorities expressed by victims in terms of truth, justice, reparations and guarantees of non-recurrence.
in writing. ‒ the recent events in colombia represent a new hope for the peaceful internal development of this country. the agreement signed by the colombian government with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) on the provision of transitional justice provides the basis for a lasting solution to this internal armed conflict after more than 50 years. this agreement involves a series of amnesties for farc members, aimed at ensuring increased trust between the two parties, which is considered essential for the conclusion of a peace agreement in the near future. the european union has consistently supported the peace process in colombia, one of its important partners in latin america. we are witnessing a historic moment that could lead to the end of one of the world's longest and bloodiest civil conflicts. we must therefore welcome this positive development and encourage a final ceasefire. at the same time, however, we must not forget the similar conflict between the colombian government and the national liberation army, for which a similar agreement is needed. only under these conditions will colombia and its citizens be able to move towards a normal situation in which they can reach their real development potential.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
the european union is also a key player in the fight against climate change. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comments, your questions. i thank those who have spoken, those who have not spoken. i was going to tell you, mr president, that having heard what i heard, i am prepared to come every day, because it was a real bed of roses. more seriously, i would like to return to the compliments you have paid to commissioner cañete: they are justified. with regard to french diplomacy, i will be a little more nuanced, but i will save that for the end. but first, many of you have returned to the question of 1.5 and 2 degrees and the ambition which i believe is remarkable and which is, moreover, recognised by everyone in this agreement. i admit that we might have disagreed, because after all, the previous conferences had not yet given an example of perfect success, as they say at the quai d'orsay. but the main risk, at least the risk i identified, was that we agreed, but on a minimum ambition and we talked about it often, you remember. but let's be honest, not everything is settled. that said, the success of paris, in essence, is to have reached an agreement between 195 countries without any opposition and people were free on a content that is very ambitious. and that's where the two and one-and-a-half degrees come in. you have seen, and this has given rise to long discussions, that the writing is not exactly the same for 2 and 1.5 degrees. for the 2 degrees, it was already not easy to obtain; i remember, having replaced president hollande at the g20, that i had already had a lot of trouble getting the 2 degrees. and then what happened? there has been a kind of dynamic in international conferences that advocates multilateralism. there have been very strong interventions from, in particular, the small islands, from their representatives, who have said that, of course, 2 degrees is very good, but if you don't write 1.5 degrees and if you don't make arrangements to go to 1.5 degrees, you are implicitly saying that we, we no longer exist. it's not just a question of whether we can live well or not: we'll be covered, we won't be able to exist anymore. this argument was so strong that it convinced countries that were not spontaneously in favour of 1.5 degrees. i'll use my hands. today, when we add up all the cpdns, we're pretty much on the 3-degree trajectory, to be honest. what is at stake, through the paris agreement and now the subsequent decisions, since all this is on a fairly long horizon, is to move from a 3 degree trajectory to a 2 degree and 1.5 degree trajectory. and this requires a whole series of concrete actions and a point that many of you have highlighted, namely technological innovation and major investments. at first, i wasn't the world's leading expert on these issues, i have to admit, but i'm a hard worker, so i dug into the subject. i'm absolutely convinced that there's going to be major technological changes that will make the financial hierarchy of energy quite different from what it is today. as many of you have already pointed out, in some cases renewable energy is already much cheaper, when you add up the direct and indirect costs, than highly polluting energy such as coal. we shall be going more and more in that direction. the ambition of the agreement and its universality were not contradictory but complementary, and this is one of the great successes of paris. secondly, several of you have rightly commented on the air and sea sectors in international transport. so, i'll be square then, too. there were several parties, including the european union, who wanted us to include international transport in the agreement. but you know the mechanism, which is the mechanism of consensus. it became apparent quite quickly that this point was met with strong opposition - let's call it what it is - from several emerging economies and gulf countries, and therefore consensus was not possible. this does not in any way prevent icao and imo, the two international organisations responsible for this matter, from taking action in this respect. europe, the cop 21 presidency and all those of good will will be mobilizing this year. the icao has set itself the objective of reaching an agreement by september 2016 to stabilise aviation emissions after 2020, and why not to reduce them. the european union, if i may put it that way, must be at the forefront of this issue and promote compromises well in advance. as regards the maritime sector, the discussions are admittedly less advanced, but compliance with the objectives set out in the paris agreement implies that negotiations should be opened without delay in the case of the imo. first of all, it seems to me that the eu should encourage the recognition of emissions levels from the maritime sector and the establishment of a system for measuring global emissions from the maritime sector. but you are absolutely right, because this represents considerable greenhouse gas emissions, that this year, significant progress must be made in both these areas. thirdly, many of you have spoken, and you are quite right, about low carbon, high carbon, competitiveness and so on. it's absolutely central. there is no contradiction between greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and the requirements of competitiveness or employment on the other. of course, we need changes, we need accompanying measures, but i am absolutely convinced that competitiveness, not only for countries like ours but also at world level, must go hand in hand with a move towards low-carbon production, and this is where we come to the question - i believe mr jadot asked it - of divestment or investment. yes, you have already seen that outside of the very public investment, which is very important and essential, in the private sector, there is a shift that is taking place, and that's good; we need to be able to speed it up. first, i think that countries should gradually reduce subsidies for fossil fuels. this principle, i remind you, was set by the european council in may 2013 and france had advocated an ambitious position, for example, in the framework of export credits for coal-fired power stations. we need to make this movement global and, as i was going to say, take advantage of the fact that oil prices are low. you know the numbers: we're talking about 100 billion that we rich countries have to allocate to poor countries for climate, but the money that goes into fossil fuel subsidies is over 500 billion a year; so we have orders of magnitude in mind. secondly, to answer mr jadot, we must encourage private sector actors not to invest, or even to divest, in the high carbon sectors and, as far back as cop 21, we are seeing a movement: the first sovereign wealth fund, which is a norwegian fund, has instructed that there should be divestments in this sector, to the extent that the governor of the bank of england believes that the next financial bubble could well occur in the carbon sector, because we will see that this sector, of course, will have difficulties, whereas massive investments have been made in it. i think that in the private sector, we can ask central bankers and rating agencies to now systematically take climate risk into account and make the disclosure of carbon footprints mandatory. these are not out of our reach and would be extremely useful. however, in parallel with this trend towards divestment, there is a need to maintain a constant effort in favour of investments in renewable energy; the needs are immense. the european union has instruments - the juncker plan, the structural funds, eib projects, etc. - which, in my view, can and must be mobilised. you have a european council in march and i believe that the commission will take stock of the evaluation of the implementation of the paris agreement. these are really directions that we can go in. finally, the last point - and i do not want to be too long - will be about the compliments, i cannot find any other words, that you have made about the french presidency. i have already said that i have no reservations about the european union, the role of commissioner cañete and the luxembourg presidency. on the other hand, as far as french diplomacy is concerned, even if it, through me, blushed when listening to you - especially since our modesty is known to all - in reality, i was thinking, our role and mine, was simply to promote, and to translate diplomatically, a quite remarkable alignment of the planets. the first planet was the planet itself. 2015 was the warmest year on record, with significant disasters and a public awareness, and this disastrous situation has, if i may say so, a positive side: it made even more clear that there had to be an agreement, and it fostered awareness. so the first planet, which is our planet, is an alignment element. the second planet -- i really want to pay tribute to him -- is the science planet. i would like to pay tribute here to the remarkable work of scientists, and in particular to the work of the ipcc, which has established the undeniable nature of warming and quantified the threats. when we had public meetings, five, 10 years ago, etc., half the meeting was devoted to whether or not there was climate change, and the second half of the meeting was devoted to whether it was due to human action. now, i'm not saying that these debates have completely disappeared, but they have largely disappeared, at least in many of our countries, and that's thanks to the work of scientists. this science planet has been a great help. the third planet is the planet that i'll call the socio-political planet. there have been major greenhouse gas emitters that have taken very strong positions: china, the leading emitter, which for obvious reasons, which are practical, economic, societal and social reasons, has played a very important role, president obama, who has been very committed and, of course, the european union, and other countries, but this has allowed for there to be, in parallel, a very strong evolution of the economic circles, the involvement of the communes, the involvement of the regions, the involvement of the ngos, the involvement of the great spiritual and religious voices, and all of this, this planet that i call the political-social, which is a new element, which has obviously made the paris conference in very different circumstances from the famous copenhagen conference. and finally, the diplomatic fact that this is the planet. our task has been to promote convergence with all the countries, and particularly with the european union, and to translate all this into an international agreement with its 29 articles and 140 decision points. i am often asked: but the work of a diplomat, etc. i say, with a little humor, that i don't fully understand the reasons for this success, but i would rather not understand the reasons for success, than have brilliant explanations for failure, but once i've said that, deep down, when i look back a little bit at the work we've done, it's a bit of a sculptor's work. you know, the sculptor takes blocks of clay, he takes the main blocks first, which were china, the united states, europe, india, and he had to add all these blocks together and then give them a certain shape. then there are the smaller blocks, which are also necessary because, without consensus, there is no agreement. we had to give shape to all this, but without losing any of these blocks and, finally, this is the work we have done in a spirit of transparency, trust, which has been highlighted. at the end of this show -- and i'll give a little hammer to mr. schulz, who became the most famous hammer -- and it's quite rare in international conferences, everybody kissed. but it wasn't something we agreed on; we had the feeling that in a world that was really very tough, very dangerous, very complicated and very uncertain, for one of the first times, through the work of all of us, there was really something that was going to allow not only this generation, but future generations, to live a better life. as has been pointed out, of course, these are circumstances which are not always politically encountered in one's life, so i thank you all for making this possible.
in writing. the signing of the paris agreement is a real success which we attribute to all of humanity, without neglecting the role played by the european parliament in this process. to truly understand the success of this conference, it is enough to look at the results of all previous climate change conferences, which have proven to be completely ineffective. limiting global warming to 2 degrees celsius and committing to work towards 1.5 degrees over time is a desirable goal that will be achieved through technological innovation and major investment. therefore, all states must act as soon as possible with a view to signing and ratifying the agreement. the european union must continue to set an example for other global actors and be the first signatory to the agreement, as the process will be completed after ratification by all member states.
in writing. i am deeply concerned about the dramatic and violent conflict and the grave humanitarian crisis in yemen, where 21 million people, representing 80% of the population, are in urgent need of assistance and 6 million people are in need of immediate life-saving assistance. while fighting continues in several areas, humanitarian access to provide essential food and fuel supplies remains extremely limited. i strongly condemn the series of attacks on medical personnel and facilities and express my conviction that it is necessary for the parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law. it is of particular importance that all parties to the conflict take firm action against terrorist groups, which pose a direct threat at home and abroad. only a broad political consensus in the un-led negotiations can provide a lasting solution, restore peace and preserve yemen's unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. the european union must provide support to all regional actors, who should act responsibly and constructively to provide a way out of the crisis and to avoid the spread of regional instability.
madam president, i will reiterate that i am among the friends and supporters of turkey and of the strengthening of cooperation between the eu and turkey. but what is happening today in turkey is, first of all, detrimental to turkey’s best interests. the violence and escalation on the south-eastern side of turkey represent a real danger which should be stopped. we need first and foremost for political dialogue between the government and the kurdish representatives to go back to the point where the government of turkey had already achieved important results in the peace process. now these achievements have been lost and we are coming to a point which could be a point of no return if the escalation continues further. i will reiterate that it is first and foremost in the best interests of turkey to prevent further destabilisation and the escalation of violence which can turn into a civil war. and yes, the eu does have the responsibility – the eu, the commission, parliament – to condemn without exception all wrongdoings by our partners, including turkey. they are our long-term partners that we have to cooperate with on our common challenges, common values, but also to commonly share our values in the future, and have the courage to engage with turkey on the need to call for an immediate ceasefire, the peace process and official visits in this area which is somehow forbidden to western access.
blue-card question. – mr marias, i truly understand that you are a greek and that is very important, but do you not think that the european union should intervene in some way and send a letter to president erdoǧan and our representatives in order to try to broker talks between the government of turkey and the kurdish representatives? because, you know, destabilisation of turkey would mean the destabilisation of greece, and of europe as well.
if we look at the situation in southeast turkey today, we see that the turkish state is trying to extend the charge of terrorism to the entire kurdish movement, and the media is using every available tool to denigrate the kurds in the eyes of the public. violence is a daily occurrence, and for the kurds, the peace agreement that was reached a few months ago is getting further away with each passing day. some in turkish society would support the peace talks, and even among members of the turkish parliament, the ruling party and the opposition, there are supporters, as the international crisis group has urged. i think the union should take stronger action to restart the kurdish-turkish negotiations. even if some people think that the price of turkey's help in the migration crisis is that they can settle the kurdish question in their own way. remember, we are talking about a country that is negotiating accession to the european union. so we cannot be indifferent to the serious violations that are taking place in the area.
question by mr pompidou (h-0414/97) subject: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the agreement on trade and cooperation between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part first of all, explain the words 'the commission has imposed', because we are in a democratic parliament and here nothing is imposed - we discuss, we vote - and how would you see, if it were not for the free trade agreement, our neighbourhood with the countries we are talking about?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, yes, we all know that we need to strengthen the eastern partnership, given the current geopolitical context, the bilateral dimension not being sufficient. you must therefore make a stronger effort to support georgia, moldova and ukraine. we all know that these states are facing big problems with the rule of law. the european union must not interfere in their internal processes, but must give them an additional impetus in the process of implementing the european idea. i've done it all wrong. moldova is one of the three countries currently experiencing a difficult political environment and financial instability that has become perpetual. it is very important to overcome this moment and return to a state of stability that allows moldova to maintain and advance its course. it is essential to reconfirm the union's interest in and support for moldova, which remains one of the key partners for maintaining the balance in this area. what do you do for these? the european union must maintain its commitment to moldova and ensure that it remains in an area of stability, otherwise we cannot expect or demand reforms. what have you done so far? moldova has already made important progress in anti-discrimination, justice and free movement, and it should be noted that in implementing free trade agreements, moldova is leading the way in increasing trade with the european union, according to eurostat data. georgia, which has benefited from an economic boost due to better implementation of reforms, has almost half the percentage of moldovans; we continue to criticise the moldovans. therefore, the priority of the chisinau government must be to restore the implementation of free trade agreements and, further, to maintain a stable situation, which allows the construction of a system of solid and sustainable reforms, both at the institutional, economic and political levels. we therefore expect from chisinau a renewed political commitment to the reforms agreed with the european union on the basis of the association agenda, but also from europe a genuine support. reforms and the strengthening of moldova's stability are interdependent processes, which complement and reinforce each other. the efforts in the transition processes of moldova and the other two countries need to be guided, with europe's role as educator. (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, as we are debating, the parliament of the republic of moldova, as you have heard, has invested the new government, pavel filip. this vote comes after a long period of severe political instability and failure to implement commitments made both to the union and to the citizens of the republic of moldova. these lost months have led to a loss of some of the citizens' trust in democratic institutions and political parties in moldova. that is why it is so important that the role and performance of this government, once installed, be seen in the restoration of the economic and social situation, as well as in the unhesitating implementation of the reforms undertaken. the installation of the new government is at the same time a positive sign for the stability that moldova so badly needs, but above all, it is imperative to work on growing and winning the trust of the citizens of this country. commissioner, before i close, i would like to tell you that two representatives of forces hostile to democracy and stability arrived in chisinau today on a plane from moscow and that forces hostile to democracy tried to enter the parliament of the republic of moldova to block it and its work, and i am waiting for the european commission to react to this attempt to destabilise it.
madam president, in the last few days, a life and death battle has been fought for the fate of the republic of moldova. does moldova stay with the oligarchs, the mafia and the russians or does moldova go on the european road and the road to democracy? there was political instability until today, when a new government was voted in, but let's be honest and tell the truth: there was political instability because the government fell in october 2015, and when this government fell, they also put their shoulders on those from the democratic party of the republic of moldova, which is part of the european socialist family, the party of european socialists. the president of this party, mr lupu, even came here to strasbourg and asked his socialist colleagues for light and advice. maybe his fellow socialists will tell us what they've advised him to do: to bring down the government, to negotiate to take more power? we have a new government now, and the communists are part of it. what we are asking from this government is to respect the terms of the association agreement, precisely to prove that they have good intentions for the republic of moldova.
madam president, i would first like to welcome the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the european union and ukraine. on the other hand, i would like to welcome the progress that both ukraine and georgia have made in implementing the visa liberalisation action plan. we are all waiting for a very clear message from the union on visa liberalisation. i would like, in the time i have left, to say a few words about moldova. as we speak, the moldovan parliament is occupied by protesters. they're protesters mobilized by two parties that are entirely controlled by moscow. this after a hard-fought vote for a government that is, in turn, the product of an oligarch who is moscow's creation. we have to say that at this moment, unfortunately, we are in moldova facing a confrontation between parties that still claim a european identity and a pro-european plan, but are under the control of pro-russian oligarchs, and respectively, parties directly controlled by moscow and who want early elections. we are at an impasse, it is a very serious crisis and probably the results of this confrontation will be worse, i fear, than what happened in ukraine two years ago. the union has done everything it could: we have supported projects that were related to the european road, but we are, at this moment, in a game that is controlled, unfortunately, by moscow.
madam president, by signing the association agreements, moldova, ukraine and georgia have chosen a path of close political association and economic integration with the eu. as chair of the eu-moldova pac, i see the value and political significance of this resolution, not only in the implementation assessment, but especially in its clear message on the way ahead. moldova has gone through an unprecedented political period since the last general election. the new prime minister and his parliamentary majority have the unique opportunity and responsibility to finally provide the country with a stable and predictable political process. such an environment is a precondition for any thorough reform ambition conducive to genuine and profound progress. by conforming to the european path and implementing the association agenda, i am certain that the country’s pressing issues will finally be addressed – but the most difficult political effort for the incoming executive will be that of regaining the citizens’ trust.
madam president, obviously all three countries, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine, stand to gain from the association agreement and the free trade agreement. but despite the potential, we see in the republic of moldova that the situation has worsened over the last few months. political instability has generated economic instability. inflation is at its highest level in seven years, the national currency is losing value, and foreign investment is falling, which means less economic growth, higher unemployment in the next period. based on this situation, people are obviously easy victims of pro-russian propaganda and i think we cannot just stand by and watch. so i think it's important that we do the following two things over the next period: 1) the european commission to send a joint team together with the international monetary fund immediately after the government is installed - a joint team to analyse how the republic of moldova can be financially helped and 2) senior european officials to actively participate in drafting the work programme of the future government and the necessary reforms in this country.
madam president, first of all, the european union must ensure that the right of these three countries, the republic of moldova, ukraine and georgia, to choose their own path is respected. our own path to freedom, democracy, market economy, respect for human rights, respect for the media, independence of the judiciary and not to an autocratic, dictatorial system that is embraced by the power from the east, which you all know is russia. and this is about the russian leadership, not the russian people for whom we have all the respect and due respect. the policy of confrontation promoted by russia is not in the interest of europe and the countries of europe, nor of russia. everybody has to suffer. a united europe, we must tell the russians, is in russia's interest as well. and finally, and i'm done, madam president, i want to say to our colleagues who support the russian leadership that if all three of these countries... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, all these countries from eastern europe have to and will join the european union one day. it is in the interests of europe and of all these countries. i would like to congratulate ms mogherini for the historic agreement that she brokered in august last year between serbia and kosovo, working towards the complete normalisation of relations between belgrade and priština. however, belgrade did not recognise the independence of kosovo, and there are five european union countries that have still not recognised kosovan independence. so this mechanism which we are now implementing is a sui generis mechanism to bring kosovo closer to the european union. probably the commission and the member states will have to find a way for this country to start accession negotiations with the european union without it having been recognised by all member states. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mr adaktusson, and thank commissioner mogherini for her support on this. i shall now switch to my own language. domnule președinte, pe întreg teritoriul controlat de daesh se comit atrocități care țintesc minoritățile yazidi, șiită și creștină. uciderea lor, sclavia sexuală și tortura sunt realități trăite de minoritățile religioase și reprezintă crime împotriva umanității care trebuie declarate drept genocid. nu trebuie să ne fie teamă să acceptăm realitatea. de la declarația lui al-baghdadi care spune că este imposibilă coexistența cu evreii și creștinii și până la graffituri-le din suedia care amenință:„convertiți-vă sau muriți!”, acțiunile daesh arată intenția clară de a distruge, parțial sau în totalitate, un grup național etnic, rasial sau religios. în irak, numărul creștinilor a scăzut de la 1 400 000 la 275 000, iar în siria cu peste 50 % în ultimii 5 ani. recunoașterea oficială a genocidului, alături de implicațiile legale, va genera o acțiune mai fermă a comunității internaționale. după recunoașterea genocidului de la srebenica, când numărul victimelor a fost de 20 %, comunitatea internațională a promis: never again! ce mai așteptăm?
in writing.– all around the cradle of christianity, the middle east, christians have for long been facing continuous persecution, the result of which is that since the beginning of the 20th century until today, the christian population of the middle east has dropped from approximately 14% to 4% today. however, the violence, mass killings and executions carried out by the islamic state in the last years go beyond what we ever thought could be possible. in syria is systematically abducts hundreds of christians, demands exorbitant ransoms for the prisoners or executes them. in northern iraq – in former times home to tens of thousands of christians – christians who do not convert or flee also face the threat of execution. in 2014 mosul was already cleared of christians, now there is a threat that they may disappear altogether from the country. this barbaric onslaught claiming thousands of innocent lives and erasing the region’s diverse heritage is nothing short of genocide and we are not doing what we could and should to stop it.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, after hearing what has been said i can only regret that the report i prepared in 2012 was four years too early. i will not repeat what we asked in that report but received no answer to; there are people here, such as geoffrey van orden, who know the history of this report. sadly the invitation, as i say, was ignored. consequently since france has invoked article 42(7), instead of article 222 which deals expressly with terrorism, we need to improvise setting a precedent for all future similar situations. as a former defence minister i can see value in sailing in uncharted waters, but who is to guarantee that today’s precedent will prove enough tomorrow? the situation is one more illustration that the eu is in danger of drifting towards a world of its own, more and more divorced from reality. as we did not assume article 42(7) would never be invoked, we did not exercise our preventive diplomacy tools when possible, having now to have recourse to crisis management, and even conflict resolution, much more costly solutions, in dealing with the conflicts on our doorstep. in a world dominated by power politics, the eu cannot rely on the moral superiority of not using military force in its defence. the truth is that the eu is under assault without having solved its internal problems, and its response cannot rely exclusively on soft power. if the eu does continue to ignore the realities surrounding us, i am very much afraid it will suffer the same fate as the league of nations at the end of the 1930s – something which we all want to avoid.
mr president, the terrorist attacks that have brutally struck france have affected not only the french people but all europeans. the only possible action to combat terrorism effectively must therefore be a european solution. the mutual defence clause is a first step in this european response. this is a crucial provision in our solidarity system. this obligation of solidarity is also a strong political act in these times of crisis and direct threats to our territory. several countries have responded positively to france's call, and i would like to commend the responsiveness and commitment of some member states. the actual investment by european countries is, of course, very diverse, and promises must be followed by concrete action, but even if individual contributions may seem limited and add up to each other, they are far from negligible. the activation of the mutual defence clause provides an excellent opportunity to strengthen defence and security policy. we must take this opportunity to define a clear defence strategy. sharing our strengths and resources is no longer an option, it is an absolute necessity. we can no longer afford to act individually, according to our convictions and priorities, since the priorities are now common: fighting daesh, ending the war in syria and stabilising libya. the union must act as a single bloc to make a difference.
in writing.– for the first time, the mutual defence clause was invoked after the horrendous attacks by daesh in paris. looking into the future, this case must be invoked in all in-depth political discussions on the multidimensional nature of european security and defence. i also welcome the invitation to the vp/hr of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy to propose a clear structure for ensuring an effective response in the event that a member state calls upon the mutual defence clause.
mr president, i would first like to recall that a month ago we debated and adopted by a large majority here the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the union's policy on the matter. i therefore find it very difficult to understand why we are voting so soon afterwards on a text which is, to some extent, similar to the annual report. the resolution, which is supposed to express parliament's position on the union's priorities in the un human rights council, covers all subjects having any relation to human rights: from women to drones, from sport to trade. i think that with this resolution we are completely distorting the meaning of the term 'priority' and are repeating work that has already been done. it is essential to me that next year parliament's resolution on this issue be shorter and more in line with its objective. we could, for example, choose five priorities and stop there. for parliament's positions on all other human rights issues, we have the annual report. the second point i would like to make concerns the second part of the text which theoretically covers the list of countries under universal periodic review, because there is a flagrant inconsistency there, following the insistence of the left, which wanted, and this is not the first time, to target and stigmatize israel. we have introduced into the list, i quote, "middle east peace process", which is paragraph 89. of course, it is not a country and the universal periodic review has nothing to do with it. if we want to be taken seriously as a parliament, we must avoid this kind of inconsistency. that is why the epp group has decided to introduce a separate vote on this paragraph, and if it is not removed, we will vote against the resolution.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the intensification of the terrorist threat (2016/2519 ((rsp)).
plus they use a feudal arabic system of transferring the money.
mr president, it is in times of crisis that an organisation, a family, a union is best tested to see if it can hold out. more than ever, the european union needs unity to ensure the safety of our citizens, and this must be permanently on the agenda of the council and the commission. the council representative told us here that hatred against muslims must be curbed, but at the same time you must also propose, commissioner, solutions to make muslims understand the conditions of acceptance in europe, to understand us and to accept european culture, whether they have chosen to live in europe or whether they have been forced to do so by conflict and economic problems. this is where the refugee crisis started. more coherence in communication is needed at national and european level, especially by the council. the commission and the council must present a clear plan to european citizens to deal with the issue of refugees from conflict zones and economic migrants. we cannot leave the refugee problem to the whims and interpretations of individual citizens, nor can we move entire countries into europe. the commission and the council must therefore work together and present a coherent action plan to the european parliament and the member states. solidarity poorly managed can undermine security.
i am pleased that today's vote is expected to bring the stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union into force and i join those who are encouraging the five member states - including my own country, romania - which have not yet done so, to recognise kosovo. at the same time, i would like to stress that successful european integration of the western balkan countries is unthinkable without the regulation of the coexistence of indigenous ethnic groups and the establishment of clear and accountable rules. although the agreement does not say much about this area, and only speaks in general terms about the protection of persons belonging to minorities, experience unfortunately shows that this is not enough: there is a backsliding in the application of minority rights in the countries that have already joined, the member states do not respect the general commitments and the eu does not pay enough attention to this area, even though it affects 40 million eu citizens. i think that the albanians in kosovo know exactly what it means to be a minority, and it is now their turn to make a fair offer of coexistence to the serb minority in kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo (saa) aims to establish contractual relations and strengthen political dialogue in order to create new forms of cooperation and trade integration. moreover, it promotes a number of democratic principles, embodied in cooperation policies in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. there are also provisions on promoting european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and the agreement also aims at establishing a free trade area. through this act, the conditions for economic growth and development of investment opportunities will be created, while providing a remarkable stimulus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to the process of european integration of the republic of kosovo and to strengthening good governance by promoting democratic principles and european standards.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was instated in july 2014. i voted for this report that will provide enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation of the european parliament because i believe that it does not reflect the reality within the eu, as some of the member states are still waiting for a solution and a formal and definitive position from serbia. in this context, i cannot consider that the position expressed in this recommendation is unanimous and expresses the position of the entire european union.
in writing. ‒ stabilising and developing the western balkans region has been a consistent policy pursued by the european union over the past two decades. through existing instruments or by creating others specifically designed for this purpose, the eu has come to the aid of the citizens of the region, with a view to normalizing their lives and the possibility of aspiring to european citizenship in the future. the main instrument that can strengthen the evolution of the states in the region towards eu membership is the stabilisation and association agreement. it creates the conditions for attracting more foreign investment, developing business environments, economic growth and good governance through the application of european standards and community legislation. for this reason, the conclusion of the agreement is an important motivating factor for the implementation and institutionalisation of the necessary reforms. such documents have been concluded with most of the states in the region. as regards kosovo, the uncertainty surrounding its international status has so far prevented the conclusion of a similar agreement. citizens living there must not, however, be deprived of the benefits enjoyed by other citizens in the region. before signing this agreement, however, it might be useful to also settle the issue of kosovo's status, in order to avoid ambiguous issues that can generate implementation problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo, which will enable this agreement to enter into force. the saa was negotiated between october 2013 and may 2014 and was initialled in july 2014 and signed by the representatives of the european council in october 2015. the saa establishes contractual relations and provides for a more intensive political dialogue, stronger trade integration and new forms of cooperation between the eu and kosovo. the agreement covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, establishing a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. the asa also contains provisions aimed at promoting european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection. the agreement also provides for the establishment of a free trade area. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country.
in writing. ‒ the report on the appointment of members of the commission of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector is the result of the joint efforts of representatives of the main bodies of the european union to request an examination of allegations of irregularities and maladministration in the application of union legislation on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector. the main objectives of this committee will be to monitor the emission test cycles carried out and to adapt them when they no longer meet the requirements so that they adequately reflect the emissions generated by real road traffic. the commission of inquiry will also carry out, within its mandate, various investigations into the implementation of the explicit prohibition on manipulation devices, the compliance with the provisions on effective, proportionate penalties for manufacturers for non-compliance with the rules for the use of manipulation devices, refusal to grant access to information and falsification of type-approval or functional conformity test results. i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to monitor compliance with the legal provisions on emission measurement in the motor vehicle sector in order to ensure a lawful framework for the functioning of this sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector, in order to restore trust amongst consumers after the outbreak of the emissions scandal.
in writing. ‒ i voted the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector. the newly formed 45-member committee will investigate breaches of eu rules on car emissions testing and allegations that member states and the european commission have failed to apply eu standards. the commission of inquiry will present an interim report within 6 months and a final report within 12 months of the start of the activity. this committee will investigate the following issues related to the motor vehicle sector: the possible failure of the european commission to verify test cycles; the possible failure of the commission and member state authorities to take appropriate and effective measures to supervise enforcement; the possible failure of the commission to introduce tests that reflect real driving conditions; the possible failure of member states to take measures on effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for manufacturers who breach the law; whether the commission and member states had evidence of the use of 'protective equipment' before the outbreak of the scandal in september 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european union pursued a policy of expanding its sphere of economic and political influence in georgia, moldova and ukraine through the signing of association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade agreements. the three countries have therefore opted for a policy of rapprochement with the union, drawing up various ambitious reform programmes in a number of areas, such as democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights. the approach of georgia, moldova and ukraine to economic integration and closer policies with the european union reinforces the efforts of the three countries to approximate their national legislation to union standards. such an agreement therefore generates added value for the reform processes in these countries. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as the in-depth association and free trade agreements are a priority in the european neighbourhood policy and also play a fundamental role in ensuring good governance, democracy, the rule of law and the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the association agreements and would like to see more attention paid to the social dimension of the partnership. i believe that more efforts are needed in the area of the rule of law, in the fight against corruption, as well as in the strengthening of democracy. it is the right of these countries and their citizens to choose their own path to follow, as long as it is towards european values, towards democracy and market economy, towards respect for human rights and freedom, towards the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary and not towards an authoritarian dictatorial regime of the asian type. the republic of moldova is an entity belonging to the european culture, the south-east european space. this policy of confrontation promoted from eastern europe is neither in the interest of europe nor of that country.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the efforts made by georgia, moldova and ukraine in taking the necessary measures towards meeting eu standards for association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (aa/dcfta). i also believe that the aa/dcfta provisions regarding energy cooperation are of great importance in order to ensure the development of competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory energy markets in line with eu rules and standards.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for moldova and shadow rapporteur for georgia in the inta committee, i welcome this resolution and its emphasis on our trade relations with those countries and, of course, also with ukraine. the eu is a key trading and economic partner for them, and it therefore plays an important role in their development. the dcftas, if properly implemented, will generate jobs and will bring significant improvements to the living conditions of their people. the resolution highlights the positive results in terms of exports to the eu during the first 12 months of the dcftas’ implementation for georgia and moldova. i expect the dcfta with ukraine to achieve similar results. however, the three countries must continue to pursue their reform agenda in the areas of judiciary, the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime, to which i personally attach absolute priority in the institutional arena. these reforms will allow the countries to maximize and consolidate the economic benefits deriving from the full implementation of the dcftas. their economic integration through trade and investment with the eu is the only real mid-to-long—term source of social, economic, political and institutional dynamism and structural change for – hopefully – the better.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will bring georgia, moldova and ukraine onto the path of closer political and economic integration with the european union, undergoing reforms in numerous areas such as human rights, good governance, and the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. as s&d itre coordinator, i stress the importance of energy cooperation, security of supply and the development of competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory energy markets in line with eu rules and standards, as well as renewable energy and energy efficiency. the eu wants to strengthen the full integration of moldova, ukraine and georgia into the energy market through the energy community. the active support and solidarity in the field of energy demonstrated by the eu allowed russia to resume gas supplies to ukraine in the winter of 2015-2016. thus, member states should fully exploit the transit potential of ukraine, strengthen their cooperation to ensure energy supply to both the eu and ukraine and avoid the construction of new pipelines to deliver gas from russia to europe bypassing ukraine, which could have a negative impact on the eu's energy diversification strategy and on eu legislation. i support the eu's intention to promote the full integration of ukraine into the energy market through the energy community and to reduce energy dependence without placing an undue burden on private households.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the association agreement with georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine because i believe it is very important for the european union to continue cooperation with these eastern partnership countries, despite pressure from the russian federation. in the context of events and progress in the three states, i support efforts to enhance cooperation with them, to encourage and support their development and stability, both economically and democratically and socially.
in writing. ‒ the european union pays particular attention to the stabilisation and development of the regions in its immediate neighbourhood and encourages the strengthening of relations with states that wish to do so. the conclusion of the association agreements, also known as the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements, represents a new step in strengthening cooperation with the countries of the region that have demonstrated that their relationship with the eu is one of their strategic objectives. as the ratification process of the agreements is almost completed and after a period of provisional application of their provisions, it is time for these documents to enter into full force. they will act as further confirmation and motivation for those countries to maintain the path of reforms they have been following in recent years. this is all the more so as there is currently political instability in the republic of moldova which must not escalate and the eu must support pro-european forces in all three countries. the eu's partnership with these states should also focus on progress in the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the strengthening of democracy, and should take into account the evolution of the social dimension in each state.
in writing. i was one of the epp initiators of the resolution on the association and/or free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the resolution adopted by the ep reiterates the eu's support to the three states to maintain their pro-european course and to maintain their territorial integrity. in the chapter on the republic of moldova, the ep expresses its concern about the political instability in chisinau, drawing attention to the fact that recent developments may lead to the destabilisation of the whole country, endangering the economy and thus the flow of foreign investment. the ep urges the political forces in the republic of moldova to speed up negotiations with a view to forming a government that will continue the reform processes in favour of the citizens of that state. the resolution also calls on the moldovan authorities to continue investigations and bring to justice those responsible for the theft of one million euros from the moldovan banking system.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, which claimed the lives of at least 130 people from over 26 countries, immediate action is needed to combat international terrorism. over the last decade, eu member states have been the target of several terrorist attacks, which have left hundreds dead and several thousand injured. the paris attacks led france to invoke the mutual defence clause, with the member states obliged to provide france with aid and assistance by all means at their disposal. such tragic events underline the importance of conflict prevention and the need for the union institutions to be more actively involved in security and defence policy and in promoting the transposition into practice of all the provisions in the field of security and defence policy enshrined in the treaties. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that solidarity, mutual aid and assistance between member states is imperative in such situations. at the same time, the fight against terrorism must remain a priority for the european union, with concrete measures to strengthen security policy and prevent crime.
in writing. ‒ this was the first time the mutual defence clause was invoked. the current case will serve as a precedent for the future use of the mutual defence clause and is therefore extremely relevant. unfortunately, the security and defence architecture foreseen by the treaties is not yet fully implemented. the treaty of lisbon provides the possibilities for enhanced cooperation in csdp, including the consignment of specific tasks and missions to clusters of states, as well as the concept of permanent structured cooperation in military matter, while the member states are responsible for achieving progress in the area of security and defence of the union. i strongly believe that the council and the member states should draft and adopt practical arrangements and guidelines for ensuring an effective response in the event that a member state invokes the mutual defence clause, as well as an analysis of the role of the eu institutions should that clause be invoked.
in writing. ‒ in light of the recent paris attacks, the french government has decided to invoke the mutual defence clause stipulated in the treaty of the european union. this means that member states now have an obligation to aid and assist france by all means in their power in its actions against terrorism, in this particular context. given that this is the first time that the clause has been invoked, the parliament’s resolution primarily calls for establishing a clear implementation and monitoring procedure for the clause. it is a sensible approach that can potentially lay the groundwork for an effective eu security and defence mechanism and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of lisbon strengthens the solidarity between eu countries in dealing with external threats by introducing a mutual defence clause (article 42(7) of the treaty on european union). this mutual defence clause provides that if an eu country is the victim of armed aggression on its territory, the other eu countries have an obligation to aid and assist it by all means. i have voted for this resolution on the mutual defence clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the position expressed by the european parliament in this document. the fact that france invoked the mutual defence clause for the first time showed that there were no mechanisms in place to manage and coordinate such a situation. i therefore join those who support the establishment of a permanent civil-military command to plan and coordinate the eu emergency response system. in the context of increasing terrorist threats across the eu, it is essential that member states understand that only better cooperation and coordination can prevent these attacks and respond effectively in an emergency.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in france over the past year have demonstrated the need for the eu to strengthen its security and defence policy. the activation of the mutual defence clause, in accordance with article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, was the automatic reaction of the member states, in order to defend democratic institutions and the civilian population. however, at present, the capabilities of member states to deploy troops for external intervention in syria and iraq, as requested by france, are limited. this requires, in the long term, the acceleration of the implementation of the security and defence architecture provided for in the eu treaties, through enhanced cooperation in the framework of the common security and defence policy. cooperation may also take place through groups of member states for specific missions, but also through permanent structured cooperation in the military field. the council and the member states are primarily responsible at this stage for adopting the practical arrangements to ensure a consistent response when the mutual defence clause is invoked. the role of the european institutions in this case should also be clarified. the current resolution is more than necessary, in support of improving the coordination of the various existing structures at national and european level.
in writing. ‒ respect for human rights irrespective of race, origin, religion, class, caste, sex, sexual orientation or colour has always been a priority for the european union, with the member states having an obligation to guarantee respect for the indivisibility of human rights. the un human rights council seeks to respect, promote and guarantee the universality of human rights, which is one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. member states therefore have a duty to take concrete action to facilitate the respect of these rights at national level, but also to cooperate internationally to remove obstacles to the enjoyment of human rights in all areas. the eu's priorities for the cdo sessions are centred around respect for social and economic rights, freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief. the issue of migration and refugees, as well as human rights, women's and children's rights, is also a priority. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the process of mainstreaming human rights issues into eu policies needs to continue.
in writing. ‒ european lawmakers attach great importance to the issue of respect for human rights at global level, through the eu's active and constant involvement in all un human rights mechanisms. respect for human rights must be mainstreamed in all policies, such as those on peace and security, development cooperation, migration, trade and investment, humanitarian action, climate change and the fight against terrorism. the eusr for human rights should continue to enhance the effectiveness, coherence and visibility of the eu's human rights policy in the context of the un human rights council sessions and in close cooperation with the office of the un high commissioner for human rights. the eu should take the recommendations of the un universal periodic review into account in all eu policy dialogues with the countries concerned, in order to explore ways and means of implementing the recommendations through national and regional strategies. the priorities of the unhrc sessions in 2016 should include respect for civil and political rights, including individual and collective freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, economic and social rights, adopting a human rights-based approach to migration, the impact of climate change on human rights, and respect for the rights of women and children.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report that will highlight our main priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2016. i support the call on eu member states to reinforce the eu practice of speaking with one voice as it would raise the visibility and influence of the eu as a global actor. i believe this report will encourage the eeas, notably delegations in geneva and new york to increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of the eu’s action in the unhrc by further development of cross-regional outreach and cooperation and on lobbying all moderate states in the un. we must actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concept of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, underline the need to keep special procedures and to preserve the independence and the adequate funding of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, as well as sufficient funding for regional unhrc offices open.
in writing. ‒ i would first like to congratulate ambassador choi kyong-lim as president of the unhrc for 2016. i would also like to underline that it does not do the unhrc justice to support the election to the human rights council of countries which do not uphold respect for human rights. the fight against racial discrimination and xenophobia is of crucial importance and must be upheld as a central goal by the unhrc. furthermore, the eu’s position should be backed fully with respect to a zero tolerance towards the death penalty and the countries still making use of it.
in writing. ‒ the united nations human rights council has appointed ambassador choi kyong-lim as president for 2016. i have voted for this resolution that should set out the priorities of the united nations human rights council for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that respecting, promoting and guaranteeing the universality of human rights is part of the ethical and legal culture of the european union. all states have an obligation to guarantee respect for human rights regardless of race, origin, religion, class, caste, sex, sexual orientation or colour. i support the report voted today, as it presents the situation of some third countries and their problems in respect of human rights, as well as the eu's priorities and actions in this area. the eu reaffirms its zero tolerance for the death penalty, expresses its concern at the constitutional amendments undertaken in some countries to increase the limit on the number of presidential terms and stresses that minority communities must be promoted in order to achieve equality in all areas of life.
in writing. ‒ the european union's participation in the united nations human rights council is an expression of the importance that the community institutions attach to this subject. respect for human rights is a key condition for the eu in its relations with third countries. the event will address the issue of states under universal periodic review (upr), such as georgia, lebanon, mauritania, myanmar, nepal, oman and rwanda, as well as countries where the human rights situation is at a critical stage, such as syria, burundi, yemen and saudi arabia. it will also discuss specific issues that persist in various countries, including civil and political rights, social and economic rights, business rights, immigration, climate change, women's rights, children's rights, sexual minority rights, the death penalty and press freedom. what needs to be emphasized is the universality of human rights and their indivisibility. eu participation will provide an opportunity to express a common position, which will help to increase the visibility and credibility of the eu as a global actor, encouraging eu action in various parts of the world. for these reasons, this resolution deserves to be supported.
in writing. ‒ the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 were reflected in the annual report, which provided a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions. citizens can express their concerns about the union's various policies and legislation by exercising their right to petition the european parliament. it is therefore a tool that allows citizens to raise their concerns with parliament about the impact of the various policies and legislative provisions of the european union on their daily lives. the results of this report are an important quantitative tool for evaluating the work of the committee. approximately 69,5% of the petitions received in 2014 were resolved at the beginning of the procedure, thus noting that the decision to send information to the petitioner and resolve the petition in the first phase of the procedure is a significant increase compared to 2013 (11,3%). i voted in favour of this report because i consider it extremely important to use these instruments to guarantee the right of free expression of the citizens of the member states on matters which fall within the union's fields of activity and which concern them directly, also appreciating the progress made in the work of the committee on petitions.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important to give a precise and full view of the work carried out in 2014 by the committee on petitions. statistics on the number of petitions received are an important quantitative tool in assessing the committee’s work. i believe we have to strongly focus on the needs of citizens, who were especially concerned by matters related to the environment, internal market or fundamental rights. it is important to explain how eu policies should be developed and to object to decisions made by national governments if the citizens ask for it. identifying the problems that organisers of european citizens’ initiatives encounter is also an issue that has to be addressed. we must ensure correct application of eu legislation by national authorities, to avoid legislation being poorly transposed or failure to apply eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the work undertaken by the committee on petitions and the right of citizens to monitor, defend and promote their rights regarding the legislative mechanism. the commission should be strongly engaged in the process of petitions. the commission should conduct investigations concerning the cases submitted to it and provide swift and accurate replies to the petitioners.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report will provide an overview on the activities and work done by the petitions committee. i have voted in favour of this report, which will provide statistics on the number of petitions dealt with by the committee, the matters raised and the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ the right of european citizens to petition on various issues of interest is one of the guarantees offered by the european institutions to ensure the widest possible participation in the decision-making process and to reduce the democratic deficit. the way in which this right is put into practice and the extent to which it is translated into concrete decisions at european level is indicative of the extent to which citizens are exercising their legitimate rights. the year 2014 marked certain trends in the european petition process which are in line with the trends of recent years. the number of petitions to the european institutions has thus decreased, but the number of petitions rejected and resolved has increased. the most common countries of origin include spain, germany, italy and romania, confirming the trend of previous years. among the favourite topics addressed by petitioners are justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights, where it seems that there are the most problems at member state level. petitions sent by e-mail are also becoming more common than those sent on paper. what is worrying is the increase in the share of unresolved petitions, which indicates a certain rigidity of the european institutions. the problems identified in the report should be addressed by enhancing interinstitutional cooperation.
blue-card question. – ms morvai, you said that you are a criminal lawyer, and you talked about a hungarian who is in prison in romania. do you know what charges this citizen faces? at the same time, there is an agreement between hungary and romania, as european union states, to cooperate on these kinds of issues. it is not the same thing as european union citizens being detained in india.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, the european union and its member states have a regular and frank dialogue with the government of ethiopia on issues related to democracy and human rights. our consistent message is that economic and social development must go together with political and human rights to make it sustainable. a strong civil society and freedom of expression, association, and peaceful assembly are crucial for creating a more prosperous, secure and more economically successful country. in that context, the european union is following recent unrest in oromia, triggered by the urban expansion plans for addis ababa city, closely and with concern. there were also ethnic clashes in the amhara region, which received less attention from the media but which also resulted in casualties. on 23 december 2015, the european external action service spokesperson called for a peaceful resolution of the disputes. these events show the importance of constructive dialogue to address grievances. we called for clarity on all acts of violence and abuses perpetrated against protesters, as well as accountability for such violations. we have raised these concerns with the ethiopian authorities in addis, and most recently in brussels when the minister for foreign affairs, dr tedros adhanom came to visit high representative/vice-president mogherini on 13 january. he recognised the situation and informed us that the addis ababa expansion master plan had been discarded. ethiopia is facing many other challenges, where we are also working with the government. the population has grown dramatically in recent decades, now reaching over 100 million people. this is a challenge in terms of job creation, service delivery and poverty reduction. the effects of two consecutive droughts and of el niño have left 10.2 million people in need of food assistance, in addition to eight million already benefiting from government programmes. this endangers the social and economic development of the country. in this context the european union provides, and will continue to provide, political and financial support for improving the human rights situation in ethiopia, but also for supporting, in parallel, efforts by the government in terms of poverty reduction, economic and social development and humanitarian issues. ethiopia is the biggest beneficiary of the 11th european development fund’s bilateral development envelope of eur 745 million, complemented by regional and thematic programmes and emergency trust fund operations for stability and addressing root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa. despite these immense needs, ethiopia has an open door policy and is the largest refugee-hosting country in africa, with over 700 000 refugees. in the eu, we shall provide support on this issue through the regional development and protection programme for the horn of africa, as well as through the recently signed common agenda on migration and mobility. ethiopia is an important partner for the european union in many areas – migration, climate change, regional peace and stability to name but a few. we enjoy a constructive engagement on all these aspects that are important to europe, to ethiopia and to the region. in the same vein, the european union will resolutely continue to stress the importance of human rights in ethiopia and support the country in respect of the fundamental freedoms of its citizens.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr. deva, you know we were together in korea and tried, you're right, to help the two koreas reconcile. i ask you directly: with your experience, do you think that we, as the european union, can really influence the unification of the two koreas? because i spoke to the unification minister of south korea, and it seemed to me that he didn't have a concrete agenda.
author. mr president, this debate on north korea is very important for several reasons. it is part of the condemnation of north korea's recent nuclear test. this test was conducted in violation of all un security council resolutions and it poses a very serious threat to the stability of the korean peninsula. the second main reason is that this year there was a korean candidate for the sakharov prize. reverend hyeon, who has devoted his life to defending human rights in north korea, has unfortunately not been officially nominated due to lack of support. the sakharov prize for a north korean human rights defender would be a major step forward in the fight for human rights. the impact of the sakharov prize on the countries concerned is not yet proven, but in the past it has helped to revive the debate on the issue of human rights and to encourage civil society to become more involved. that is why i would like to take this opportunity to invite our colleagues who really want to help north korea to support such a move this year. no one from north korea has ever been at least an official candidate for the nomination and that's absurd, because it's one of the last totalitarian countries. the prize has been given to important people, and i think we should also take this step towards north korea. it is also important that parliament sends a strong message to korea and that these human rights situations remain a priority for foreign policy. in this connection, we call in our resolution, mrs mogherini, for the situation in that country to be monitored closely and for constant pressure to be maintained on the regime. i wanted to put north korea back on the agenda of our resolutions, because i refuse to share the pessimism about the country's capacity for change. the north korean people deserve our continued commitment, and the regime will not undertake any reforms on its own. it is up to the international community to seize the opportunities for sustainable action.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, biological and technical weapons poses a threat to international peace and security, i strongly condemn the nuclear test conducted by north korea on 6 january as a serious breach of its international obligations, un security council resolutions and the non-proliferation regime. it is essential to suspend all activities related to the ballistic missile programme and to abandon completely the existing nuclear programmes. the north korean authorities should also fulfil their obligations, cooperate and provide access to their territory for humanitarian organisations and the un special rapporteur on human rights. the commission has a duty to maintain communication channels with north korea and existing humanitarian aid programmes. it is also the duty of the north korean authorities to ensure that all citizens have access to food and humanitarian assistance on the basis of need.
mr president, i would like to express my strong support for this motion for a resolution, which strongly condemns north korea’s nuclear test conducted on 6 january 2016 – another nuclear test conducted by this country, which is again posing a serious threat to regional and international peace and security. these nuclear tests violate the united nations security council resolutions. the pursuit of illegal nuclear and ballistic missile programmes constitutes a challenge to the international nuclear non-proliferation regime and risks aggravating regional tensions. north korea has increasingly isolated and impoverished its people through its pursuit of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, and should instead return to the six-party talks without preconditions. we must continue to closely monitor developments in the north korea nuclear dossier and its regional and global implications. i expect a further strengthening of sanctions by the united nations security council, and i call on north korea to choose, in the end, a constructive path by engaging with the international community.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, the european union is watching with great concern the serious violations of human rights in the democratic people’s republic of korea, as documented, among others, by the un commission of inquiry’s report in early 2014. the situation calls for urgent systematic and structural changes in north korea. this is a moral and legal imperative, but also a very practical necessity. the situation as it stands is a recipe for long-term regional instability. i would like to recall that some of the findings of the commission of inquiry even point to possible crimes against humanity. for that reason, the european union has supported the recommendation that the un security council refers the situation in north korea to the international criminal court. the european union has been and will remain at the forefront of keeping this dire state of affairs at the centre of attention of the international community. our work at the un is clear testimony of that. but the eu’s goal is not securing headlines or condemnation; our prime objective is achieving concrete improvements on the ground. that is what matters the most. the european union is already financing a number of food security, health, water and sanitation projects in the democratic people’s republic of korea that are of direct benefit to some of the most vulnerable people in the country, including some children in care institutions, the elderly, people with impairments and vulnerable farming communities. the european union is ready to do more and to cooperate further with north korea, but only if it starts to address credibly and substantially its major and serious human rights deficiencies. if north korea decides to follow the path of real engagement on human rights, starting with full cooperation with the un human rights mechanisms, then it will manage to secure a real, effective security in ways that illegal nuclear weapons will never provide. but recent actions by north korea – the illegal nuclear test that it conducted on 6 january – show that we are not yet on a positive path and our ability to cooperate remains severely limited as a result. north korea should focus on the much-needed human rights reforms that its citizens require, not on destabilisation and illegal actions that create an insecure and threatening environment to the detriment of all.
in writing. i strongly condemn the fourth nuclear test conducted by north korea. north korea is in violation of 4 un security council resolutions (2006, 2009 and 2 of 2013) which strictly prohibit any nuclear or ballistic missile programme. it is regrettable, but especially dangerous, how north korea shamelessly challenges the security and peace of the world. by violating security council resolutions, north korea is violating its commitments and poses a serious threat to peace in the region. moreover, north korea is committing human rights violations at a rate 'unparalleled in the contemporary world'. the latest human rights watch report from 2015 mentions a vast network of camps where some 120,000 people are being held. these abuses can be equated with crimes against humanity. the countermeasures taken must be aimed at sanctions that are tougher than before. i call on the government of north korea to choose dialogue over nuclear testing that endangers an entire world.
mr president, i am convinced that without the decisive and professional decisions of the european central bank, the euro area economy would have remained stagnant for a long time and would have even gone into deflation. but what i think we've discussed less is the impact of cheap money policy over a long period of time on the process of saving and the process of long-term investment. we cannot help but notice that pension funds, insurance companies and especially long-term institutional investors, as well as people who save, have had a loss. so i think it's legitimate that many people are asking the european central bank: how long do you think this monetary policy of cheap money will continue?
mr president, i would like to say the following to president draghi. you have applied the right monetary policy tools towards reaching the ecb’s objective on price stability in extremely challenging economic times over the past years. the euro is a trustworthy currency; the euro area has remained attractive, and new member states have joined over the course of the past two years. what is needed to consolidate the recovery in the eurozone and the eu are economic reforms at national level. devaluing our currency cannot remain the only economic policy tool applied to increase demand for our goods on the global markets. the ecb’s policies buy time, but there is no way around reforms. member states should not lean backwards, even in good economic times. those countries that are not competitive, do not reform, do not bring their public finances in order and do not stabilise their banking systems will be heading into the next crisis, and the ecb will not be able to help them. speaking of price stability, so far core inflation is not heading upwards. the impact of the slowdown in china and other emerging markets is not to be underestimated on the european markets, as you also rightly stated. given the extension of quantitative easing, the ecb has to provide more information about how it will exit the programme again without having major consequences on inflation targets, on price stability and – most notably – on financial markets. finally, president draghi, you said that policy-makers now have a bigger challenge to think about than the euro, as the refugee crisis is more urgent. you are right, but i would also like to add that we have to learn to tackle two major challenges at a time. the fact that the refugee crisis is a bigger and more urgent crisis should not, of course, be an excuse for us not to work on further strengthening the euro in the long term.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, considering the matter of the commercial relationship between the eu and china, we should not stop at stating that china has not met the five eu criteria for a market economy. there are at least three important aspects to consider: the legal aspect and the much-debated automaticity. since there is a need to amend the eu legislation, granting the mes to china is not automatic. there are economic consequences, since there are hundreds of thousands of european jobs exposed. we expect the commission to conduct and present a deep and comprehensive impact assessment. the geopolitical context, in both ways, and the eu—china strategic partnership are in need of more cooperation and less antagonism. in conclusion, a legally-sound wto-compatible solution has to be proposed by the commission. we see a clear need to keep functioning eu trade defence systems in place. the solution delivered by the commission has to allow anti-dumping cases against china in the future as well. the entire evaluation and decision-making process should be transparent and should involve the european business community. we need a level playing field in trade between eu and china so that market forces define the competition and not intervention by the state.
mr president, the subject we are debating today is a very sensitive one. it is important to understand the heart of the problem and the consequences of either one or another position. full cooperation between the commission and parliament is essential and imperative. eu-china relations, politically and economically, are extremely important for both sides, but of course so too is the competitiveness of the european economy and industries. i mentioned the cooperation between the commission and parliament because it is only the commission, with their expertise and the results of the impact assessment, which can put parliament in the best position to judge the most suitable approach in this situation. we certainly need to avoid an economic and commercial confrontation or war with china. but at the same time, it is absolutely necessary that all measures are reflected upon and put into practice to avoid any dramatic consequences on eu industries and jobs. this means new trade defence instruments.
in writing. in an economy constantly subject to the effects of globalisation, and in the context of fierce competition and enormous pressure for efficient food production to feed the rapidly growing world population, there are very high pressures on global biodiversity and the agricultural sector in particular, leading to irreversible changes that are highly damaging to nature, society and the economy. at union level, we have a considerable number of small and medium-sized farms and family farms still growing diverse plant varieties, which is a benchmark for finding solutions to the different needs and uses in rural communities, but also to reduce the vulnerability of crops to weather, pests and diseases. european citizens should not only be aware of the significant economic costs of biodiversity loss, especially given that these costs have not been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies, but also of the significant potential of biodiversity to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities.
in writing.– europe’s biodiversity is in decline and not due to the absence of measures but due to a poor implementation of the current legislation. therefore, better implementation and enforcement of nature directives, together with adequate funding, would represent the best way to act today; this would be a great step to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target with a positive impact on nature, people and businesses. clearly, for better results, we need the involvement of all stakeholders, regional and local. we need a holistic approach of biological diversity in agriculture and the environment. the role of the common agricultural policy should not be forgotten here, together with the impact of individual farmers in preserving biodiversity. according to eurobarometer, over 80 % of europeans are concerned about the loss of biodiversity in europe and therefore, it is not the time now to revise the nature directives, as such a measure would lead to delays and uncertainty. it is time for better actions at eu and national levels.
madam president, we need to change the way we do politics. we need to change the way we do politics in europe, because politics is not about privilege, partisan interests or election results. politics is about what we do for people. in my country, romania, people are talking these days about the election cycle when, in fact, we should be talking about fighting poverty, about the need for development policies, about education or health, about marginalized people, about concrete projects for people. and we are speaking today in the plenary of the european parliament, at midnight, in front of a nearly empty hall, in the hope that tomorrow someone will hear us. that is why it is important that we here in the european parliament set the tone for this change in mindset, and i am confident that we can do so. and to do that, we have to change the mechanisms, but especially the objectives. people are running out of patience and it's time to deliver. it is time to do something concrete, and the first step in that direction is the european strategic investment plan, which needs to be more transparent, it needs to reach people, it needs to involve smes and it needs to be done in a way that works and brings about economic recovery in europe.
madam president, it is clear that we must all be united to effectively fight the threat of terrorism and protect our external borders. austria has temporarily suspended the schengen agreement. the greeks are at risk of being suspended from the schengen area because of their handling of the refugee flow, and sweden recently decided on a mass expulsion of illegal immigrants. all of these events are putting the schengen area at risk, and in the coming months, as it turns out, i think other countries will make a similar decision to austria. in view of this situation, romania, which fulfilled all the conditions for accession, was categorically refused, along with bulgaria, and is obliged to accept the quotas imposed by the union. it's more than a contradiction. what is the european union doing for the two countries? what should the two countries do now? we have fought for so many years to join the schengen area, and now, when it is in total decline, we will continue to be denied entry on the same petty grounds which, in the current context, are just meaningless pretexts. so can anyone tell me whether or not romania will be accepted into the schengen area?
economic cooperation can lead over time to a historic reconciliation between countries and to the overcoming of grievances. this principle guided the eu's founding western european member states and can help the eu's eastern and central european member states today. however, eu accession alone did not overcome the mistrust that had organically developed over the past decades or centuries. economic partnership is important, and the pursuit of common interests is even more important, but sooner or later there must be an honest discussion of sensitive issues and a path to solving problems. this is the protection of national minorities living in each other's territories, which means the right of these communities to identity, growth, strengthening, equality, and ultimately the long-term survival of the community. unfortunately, there are still some states in the region slovakia, romania that are not interested in recognising indigenous minorities as a state-making community, but rather see them as a potential threat and consider their slow assimilation desirable.
the next item is the report by georgi pirinski, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on establishing a european platform to enhance cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work (com(2014)0221 – c7—0144/2014 – 2014/0124(cod)) (a8—0172/2015).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure thank you, madam president. mr president, you have said, among other things, that you do not want to protect big capital, big business. but do you agree that only by working together among member states can we identify undeclared work and, precisely, not protect workers' rights violations in companies large or small?
madam president, despite its crucial budgetary competition and social implications, undeclared work has not yet received as much attention as it should have on a european level. as the 2013 eurofound report on the topic pointed out, there are no obvious explanations regarding the dynamics of undeclared work. for example, contrary to what most people would expect, undeclared work does not necessarily go up in times of austerity, and reduced taxes and increased deregulation do not automatically lead to less undeclared work. however, what is obvious from the figures presented is that there are some member states which are more efficient than others in dealing with this problem. the size of the undeclared economy in austria compared to its gdp is almost five times less than the endemic proportion reached in my country, for example. if through this platform we succeed in transferring some proven practices across sectors and member states and regularising a part of the grey economy, we would not only bolster fair competition and ensure more sustainability for public finances, we would also put an end to the exploitation of millions of undeclared workers who do not have the social protection or health and safety guarantees that others enjoy. in addition, results in dealing with undeclared work in a cross-border manner would also contribute to restoring much-needed trust in the functioning of the single market. (applause)
madam president, commissioner, i appreciate first of all the report and the need for this platform. i think it's a little late, but it's good that we're now leaning into this issue. as a member of the imco committee and as shadow rapporteur for this report, i do not want to repeat the disastrous effects of black-market labour on the internal market, both on workers and on smes, as you, commissioner, have stressed, but also, of course, on budgets. i believe that a measure taken needs to be monitored, which is why i took the liberty of making this amendment, so that you do not present a report to the european parliament every four years, but annually, because i believe in sharing examples of good practice from other countries and i do not believe, as do my colleagues on the right, that without cooperation we can reduce undeclared work. i also think it's important and i also proposed that the social dialogue partners be consulted and that we find ways to make both workers and societies aware that it's disastrous in the long run for workers to accept black labor. it's very important that we devote ourselves to this area very much.
mr etheridge, as far as i know, it is up to the chair, and it depends also on the time spent on the debate. today i took all the blue cards from the floor, and this of course impacts a bit on the timing we have. i am not supposed to take necessarily from each political group. i was trying to be fair here and, for example, you yourself from the efdd group spoke, but i also took a blue card from you. so i think you should be satisfied to have participated in the debate today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. i welcome the european initiative to create a platform to strengthen cooperation between member states to prevent and discourage undeclared work. this is harmful to undeclared labour, which cannot be engaged in training activities, maintains a low level of productivity, and does not benefit from health insurance and pensions. but undeclared work has even more serious consequences for people who are getting older, no longer fully able to work and no longer have access to a pension system, and are forced to rely on social assistance and charity. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), and the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 and article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1304/2013.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the decision adopted on the corporate tax package (2015/2980(rsp)).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure thank you, mr president. my dear colleague, you spoke of the need for an impact study. i would like to ask you, in relation to the commissioner's statement that smes are facing three times more tax burdens than large companies, do you think this package solves the problem of the small business act, which is to test smes? do you think this legislative package solves the problem of smes?
mr president, you are being very generous with our speaking time this morning. commissioner, dear colleagues, i also welcome the decision of the commission on the corporate tax package, which was of course long overdue. in this regard i also welcome the relaunch of the common consolidated corporate tax base, which was introduced in 2011, but too little has been done to enforce it across member states. more progress has to be made here, and much faster. until now, big multinationals had considerable tax benefits to the disadvantage of smes, as has already been said. the commission has a strong role to play in paving the way for a level playing field between smes and big multinationals. this is a crucial factor for supporting a better business environment for every company active in the single market, be it small or large. smes are a major job creator in europe, therefore making corporate taxation fairer for all companies also safeguards employment here in europe. moreover, entrepreneurship and start—up creation are essential for innovation and the creation of the jobs of the future. only then will a competitive advantage of european companies in the long term be ensured. the establishment of cross-border business is facilitated by making conditions equal for all companies and by improving coordination across europe. europe can catch up considerably in the areas just mentioned. so far, cross border e-commerce in europe can still be expanded and facilitated. only then will we create the foundations for a truly integrated single market in the coming years.
mr. president, we may be critical, but we have to admit, this package is a step forward in the need for tax fairness. how we apply it is very important. member states have a very important role to play and i believe in the subsidiarity of states in taxation, but i also believe in the need to fight against tax injustice and the domination of the internal market by multinationals, which simply crush smes, decapitalising them and diminishing their capacity to develop, even though smes are the ones who are the most important in terms of number and number of employees. commissioner, you have presented the four pillars very well and i hope they will be implemented, because we have to make sure that what we regulate in theory works. it would be good if the commissioner would listen to me.
in writing. the current situation is completely unacceptable. the tax system in many of the countries of the european union is unfair. billions are lost every year to tax evasion. president juncker has promised to develop a comprehensive agenda to tackle tax evasion, to ensure a fairer single market and to promote job creation. the european parliament's report was designed to change the game, to end the current unacceptable tax evasion of multinationals and, at the same time, to ensure a fairer tax system. the package on combating tax evasion is an important step forward. it has three pillars (ensuring effective taxation in the eu, increasing tax transparency, ensuring a level playing field) and i am pleased to see that the taxe commission's recommendations have been taken into account. i hope that these measures will prevent aggressive tax planning, promote transparency and ensure fairer competition for all businesses. those who break the law must answer to justice.
in writing. ‒ the objective of simplifying and clarifying european union legislation is to increase the degree of coherence and facilitate access for european citizens, while at the same time providing the possibility of making use of certain legislative procedures. welcomes the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission on the union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). in the context of the migrant crisis and the crossing of borders by large numbers of refugees, well-structured documents are needed to provide the appropriate legal framework, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal's first reading position because, according to the advisory working group's conclusions, this proposal is a mere codification of existing texts and does not bring about any major changes to the text. the european union is a world leader in ensuring the free movement of persons in the internal market in an area without frontiers, in accordance with article 26 (2) tfeu. to ensure this area without internal borders, the eu has committed itself to adopting measures such as a common policy on the crossing of external borders. it should also reflect the schengen acquis. it should be stressed that this external border control is not the sole responsibility of the member state concerned, but of the union as a whole. the only situation in which a member state may reintroduce border control at its internal borders for a maximum period of 10 days should be mentioned, namely in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security. i would stress that migration and the crossing of external borders by a large number of third-country nationals should not in themselves be considered a threat and that any extension of that period should be monitored at union level.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree that at schengen borders, control must be carried out in a professional and respectful manner and proportionate to the objectives pursued, so that human dignity is fully respected.
in writing. ‒ the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in accordance with the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders that alters existing texts on the schengen borders code, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we are all familiar with the issue of border crossing, which is legislated by the schengen borders code. today's report does not change the substance of this schengen borders code, but merely concerns a codification of existing texts, entrusting the president with the task of conveying to the council, the commission and the national parliaments our position as the european law-making forum. in this respect, i believe that these changes are beneficial for all member states at a time when the rules for crossing borders in the schengen area must be extremely clear.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is harmful to human health and the environment. in europe, emissions of many air pollutants have decreased substantially in recent decades, leading to an improvement in air quality in the region. however, concentrations of air pollutants remain very high and air quality problems persist. most importantly, the problems caused by air pollution must be solved at the international level. in this context, i welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, relating to heavy metals. this draft decision constitutes one of the beneficial measures contributing to the identification of specific measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
in writing. ‒ single consent vote. i fully support the amendment to the aarhus protocol on heavy metals. the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the amendment is fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report because the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protects the human environment against air pollution. the heavy metals protocol aims at reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead into the atmosphere.
in writing. ‒ the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has as its purpose the protection of the human environment from air pollution. i have voted for this recommendation that will set out stricter limit values for dust emission from certain major stationary sources.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is harmful to human health and ecosystems. a large part of the population does not live in a healthy environment by today's standards. this leads us to act through the mechanisms at our disposal. one of these is the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and the protocols to that convention. in view of the changes in pollution levels from year to year, the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the aforementioned convention represent a necessary adaptation to the new environmental realities. i voted in favour of this report because ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ single consent vote. i fully support the amendment to the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to combat and reduce damage to human health and the environment.
in writing. – the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has as is purpose the protection of the human environment from air pollution. i have voted for this recommendation that updates restrictions on dioxin and furan emissions from several sources and updates implementation requirements for several substances.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to strengthen judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine. in this context, the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and this country is an important step in the fight against serious crime and corruption. in view of the need for this agreement, i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information between eurojust and ukraine shall be subject to the provisions of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukraine is one of the european union's main eastern partners. what binds this eu state deeply is its pro-western vision, which is also at the origin of the armed conflict between ukraine and the pro-russian rebels. with the entry into force of the deep and comprehensive free trade area on 1 january 2016, the ukrainian government continues its european path, but relations with russia and peace-making in the area remain complicated. in this respect, i am convinced that ukraine will follow its pro-western path, as there is a political will to do so supported by a pro-european public opinion. the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the european parliament and the verkhovna rada of ukraine on 3 july 2015 creates the common framework for parliamentary support and capacity building of the verkhovna rada. however, the eu-ukraine relationship is not just one of support, it is one of close cooperation. in this regard, the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine aims to strengthen judicial cooperation in order to combat serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. i consider that the implementation of this agreement is in the interest of both parties.
in writing. ‒ the draft agreement limits the transfer of personal data between the parties and includes a number of specific safeguard provisions. onward transmission of such personal data is not possible without the written consent of the other party. it is important that we continue to support the work of eurojust, as it will play a key role if the eu wants to enhance its judicial cooperation to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision to cooperate between eurojust and ukraine. such an agreement is necessary for strengthening the judiciary in combating serious forms of crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. i have voted for this report that will reinforce the fight against transnational crime and enhance judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. i voted on the report on the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement. this draft agreement aims to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of this agreement. there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and to step up judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. this agreement is an important element in creating a stronger link between the eu and montenegro, a candidate country for eu membership. i voted in favour of this report because the conclusion of the agreement between eurojust and montenegro is an important step in the fight against serious crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ the draft agreement limits the transfer of personal data between the parties and includes a number of specific safeguard provisions. onward transmission of such personal data is not possible without the written consent of the other party. it is important that we continue to support the work of eurojust, as it will play a key role if the eu wants to enhance its judicial cooperation to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal for a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. this initiative would facilitate and intensify the fight against serious forms of crime and contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with the aim of enhancing judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. i have voted for this report that will reinforce the fight against transnational crime and enhance judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. i voted on the report on the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, which aims to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the proposals in the draft agreement are intended to facilitate and intensify the fight against serious forms of crime and would contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous adoption of the decision by the juri committee of the european parliament, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the position adopted by my political group after the legal affairs committee’s evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous adoption of the decision by the juri committee of the european parliament, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the position adopted by my political group after the legal affairs committee’s evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous adoption of the decision by the juri committee of the european parliament, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr florian philippot.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the position adopted by my political group after the legal affairs committee’s evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work has extremely serious budgetary implications through low tax revenues and social security. this has a negative impact on employment, but also on productivity. it undermines the financial sustainability of social protection systems, deprives workers of adequate social benefits and generates lower pension rights and limited access to healthcare. given the negative effects of this type of activity, as well as the lack of sufficient cooperation at eu level, in the absence of a formal mechanism for cross-border cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states, i believe that the european platform for enhanced cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work will represent a real support at eu level. i am in favour of this report because through the platform there will be an eu-wide framework to develop expertise and analysis and improve operational coordination of actions between the different national law enforcement authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the constant use of undeclared work in the member states demonstrates both the demand and supply for these jobs, and thus the need to integrate them into the formal set of rules and regulations of the social market economy, rather than eliminate them. i support the draft ep resolution on the proposal for a decision of the ep and of the council establishing a european platform for enhanced cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, with a view to providing clear eu added value to both efforts to prevent and deter undeclared work and to efforts to regularise the jobs concerned. i believe that a clear and precise proactive policy should be developed to encourage production in order to counteract the low level of economic growth and deflation.
in writing. ‒ given that undeclared work at national and cross-border level is two distinct forms of undeclared work and that it can contribute to the phenomenon known as 'social dumping', including through wage reductions in the member states where services are provided, i consider that close and effective cooperation is necessary both at cross-border level and at union level, as the identification, analysis and resolution of practical problems related to the implementation of union law on undeclared work conditions and social protection at work falls within the competence of the member states and their national labour protection systems.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that the undeclared economy is equivalent to over 18% of the european union’s gdp, ranging from below 8% to over 30% of gdp in the different member states, i believe we need to ensure the adoption of the agreement reached with council and commission by a large majority. the construction sector is over-proportionately affected by undeclared work; the phenomenon is also wide-spread with regard to household and care services, private security, industrial cleaning, and agriculture as well as in the hotel, restaurant and catering sector. undeclared work is often associated with unfair competition and social dumping as well as lower tax revenues and social security contributions. undeclared workers are often subject to hazardous working conditions, lower wages, lacking social security and violations of their labour rights. i strongly support the call for the involvement of european social partners as members of the platform, and the mandatory participation of all member states in the platform.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to combat undeclared work in all its forms: clandestine work, false declarations, false self-employment. the report recommends the establishment of a european platform bringing together, under the auspices of the european commission, the member states and their national bodies responsible for combating undeclared work. the platform would be a focal point for information from states and their bodies and would have the function of coordinating and exchanging best practice between its members. the problem with this platform is that it will also have a monitoring function for the action of the member states, without any guarantee of a real fight against undeclared work. for example, we know that europe has encouraged secondment, which is itself a way of circumventing social legislation. it is also known that covert work, as long as it involves illegal immigrants, is tolerated by european leaders and by some national leaders who are in favour of illegal immigration, as the migrant crisis demonstrates. the creation of this platform will therefore at most make it possible to create a new european budgetary agency.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report, which combats labour law violations and tax evasion, with the aim of increasing the number of jobs in a market characterised by fair competition, social security and sustainable fiscal stability. undeclared work distorts the market, particularly affecting smes but also workers. i believe that only through cooperation between member states and a platform that works according to well-established rules can we reduce undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which should establish a european platform with the goal of reducing undeclared work. in addition, the aim is to take action and reduce labour law infringements, tax avoidance and breaches of social security requirements.
in writing. ‒ in order to successfully tackle the complex issue of undeclared work, we need first to objectively consider its true nature. this consideration reveals that the avoidance of proper registration constitutes the direct cause of a broad range of extremely negative implications and consequences. i have voted for this report that will set out the establishment of a european platform that will gather and share trustworthy information on best practices and persisting problems and will cooperate in outlining and implementing effective enforcement and enabling measures.
in writing. ‒ we voted for enhanced cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. the decision adopted by parliament's plenary session aims to establish a european platform to encourage cooperation between member states at union level. since the situation of undeclared work differs greatly from one member state to another, the needs of the relevant authorities and other actors of the member states for cooperation also differ. close and effective cooperation between member states should be encouraged at eu level so that they can support each other and complement each other's activities in tackling undeclared work. the measures taken at national level depend on the specific context in each individual member state and the activities carried out within the platform cannot replace a national assessment of the appropriate measures to be taken. member states and their relevant authorities shall retain the competence to identify, analyse and address practical problems related to ensuring compliance with applicable union legislation on working conditions and social protection at work and to determine the measures to be taken at national level to translate into practice the results of the activities carried out within the platform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for establishing a european platform to directly tackle the multiplex problem of undeclared work by strict prevention and deterrence. avoiding proper registration comprises the direct cause of the various exceedingly negative implications as well as the consequences associated with it. there must be enforcement accompanied by pro-active enabling policies and certain measures directed towards the regularisation of jobs that remain undeclared. this undeclared work highlights that there is both supply and demand for the jobs involved, which further demonstrates the need to integrate them into the formal range of rules and regulations of the social market economy. overall, the new european platform should provide value-added at the union level to efforts to prevent and deter undeclared work as well as regularize the jobs involved. these pro-active policies come at a time when it is necessary to increase production to counter low growth and deflation. increased regularisation, as a result, will provide for decent livelihoods and the needed services to customers, all while fairly contributing to market competition and sustainable fiscal stabilisation.
in writing. ‒ the phenomenon of undeclared work, or so-called 'black labour', has a significant impact on the eu and member states' economies. over 18% of the union's gdp and between 8% and 30% of the member states' gdp is diverted by this negative phenomenon, which can be found mainly in the construction sector but also in the fields of care and cleaning services, private security services, agriculture and tourism. the main effect is unfair competition through tax evasion and the draining of public budgets of social security contributions. the workers involved also lack social protection and in the workplace, being vulnerable to poor wage conditions. to remedy this situation, the commission decided to set up a european platform to enhance cooperation between member states and the main actors involved in combating this phenomenon. the platform, in an advisory role, is to be a forum for the discussion of solutions to this problem, which are then proposed to the member states. the major aim of this initiative is to provide additional motivation for the 'blacklisting' of the workforce and to prevent it. cross-border cooperation is essential to achieve this. i therefore support this initiative and consider this document to be an important element in ensuring fairness at work.
in writing. at eu level, undeclared work is one of the most worrying and complex issues. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a european platform for enhanced cooperation on the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. in its proposal for a decision, the commission gave priority to a coercive approach aimed at preventing and discouraging undeclared work. this implies enhanced cooperation to combat labour law violations, tax evasion and non-compliance with social security requirements. i welcome the rapporteur's view, who also stressed the need for efforts to regularise the jobs in question.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is currently under enormous pressure, both globally and in europe. species are disappearing at an alarming rate, caused by many human activities. habitat change, pollution, over-harvesting, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the decline of biodiversity. unfortunately, only 23 percent of species and 16 percent of habitats are in good condition, so in the not too distant future, we may be facing an unmanageable situation. in these circumstances, i believe that more political will is needed to effectively address the current state of biodiversity as a political priority. we need a multilateral engagement in which local and regional actors play a special role. at the same time, the worrying state of biodiversity generates devastating economic costs for society, which have so far not been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies. in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, nature must be at the centre, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as the eu's efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity in 2010 failed, a new strategy was drawn up in 2011, developed around six objectives, each with its own specific actions: (1) full implementation of the habitats and birds directives (the nature directives); (2) maintenance and restoration of ecosystems and ecosystem services; (3) increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to maintaining and improving biodiversity; (4) ensuring the sustainable use of fish stocks; (5) combating invasive species; and (6) contributing to the eu's contribution to avoiding the decline of global biodiversity. the mid-term review (2015) makes it clear that we are still far from halfway there and that without significant additional efforts, the eu will miss the agreed targets in 2020 as well. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, believing that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of an innovative, sustainable and inclusive europe. i also believe that a strong will from the elites is needed to address biodiversity decline as a political priority, and that it is important to involve more stakeholders and give a special role to local and regional actors.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the rapporteur's argument that biodiversity must be protected for its enormous intrinsic value and to keep our planet as intact as possible for future generations. i believe that investing in nature and biodiversity provides opportunities that are useful and necessary from a socioeconomic point of view, and that is why i believe that we need to change our mindset about biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of the strategic own-initiative report on ‘the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy’ is to respond to the state of nature in europe report, and the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy. this strategic report will also be parliament’s contribution to the on-going fitness check of the nature legislation (birds and habitats directives). in the fruitful negotiations at committee level, the s&d colleagues managed to integrate our important point to have a holistic approach to biological diversity in agriculture and the environment as well as the conservation of genetic diversity. another important point for us was the awareness of citizens and the educational work of the member state at local and regional level. the full implementation of the nature directives is a necessary precondition to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report, which reiterates the need for additional, innovative solutions in order to halt biodiversity loss. biodiversity and nature must be central in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity represents the unique variety of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, and its loss is a loss to nature, humanity and the economy. i have voted in favour of this report on the eu biodiversity strategy, which is essential for nature itself as well as for health, wellbeing and welfare of the generations to come.
in writing. ‒ i support the position of like—minded colleagues in the european parliament and voted in favour of the report. taking into consideration that the loss of biodiversity and the disintegration of the ecosystem have been found by the world economic forum, in a 2014 ‘global risk perception survey’, to be among one of the 10 biggest risks facing the global community, and that our existence is so closely intertwined with the sustainability of natural resources, it is paramount that we adopt an ambitious and consistent approach to secure a reversal of former bad trends. we need to focus more attention towards meeting the targets as set out in the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 to avoid repeating the failure of 2010 where the targets were not met. the prevention of biodiversity loss therefore should be a top priority. to arrive at the 2020 targets it is vital to implement and enforce already established eu legislation. indeed, we know that not only does investing in biodiversity carry positive results for the natural environment it is also connected to socio-economic development. with great scope for improvement the eu therefore has an important task ahead if it is to meet the 2020 deadline.
in writing. ‒ the preservation of biodiversity is one of the eu's strategic objectives in the field of environmental protection. the european parliament shall submit an own-initiative report at mid-term to assess the situation in this area and to draw the necessary conclusions on the various problems that persist. priorities identified in this year's report include prioritising the achievement of the europe 2020 targets, providing more information to the public to raise awareness and involving all decision-makers at european, national, regional and local level. significant measures in this area include encouraging farmers through the common agricultural policy to respect biodiversity, as well as protecting the marine environment, avoiding the introduction of invasive species, protecting pollinators, combating deforestation and supporting research and innovation. the main problem, however, remains the implementation of the existing regulations. this requires better coordination of national policies and better enforcement of european law through the use of proportionate penalties. an integrated approach to all these issues is needed, with appropriate regulation in all related areas. the introduction of basic concepts into the education systems of the member states is also important for the conservation of genetic diversity. the current strategy is just the first step in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the mid-term evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy. biodiversity, today under enormous pressure both globally and in europe, is essential to our health and well-being, but also to our economic prosperity. european efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity in 2010 have failed. for this reason, the eu developed a new strategy in 2011. the rapporteur advocates greater political will to effectively address biodiversity decline as a political priority and believes that a multi-stakeholder approach is needed, in which local and regional actors play a special role.
blue-card question.– do you not think that european citizens are waiting for the european union institutions to finally take decisions– not only talking, talking, talking – considering this migrant crisis? and do you not also think that our institutions should have to address the arab countries, the muslim countries, the gulf countries, that should also have to take migrants because they belong to their world as well?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, we have heard from representatives of the council and the commission that they are migrants who do not have the right to asylum. don't you think that after all this time, we should have a very clear rule, that we tell our governments to apply uniformly in the european union, to know very clearly what we do with these people who come, in need, obviously, some for lack of money, others because of war?
mr president, commissioners, lately we have heard nothing but alarmist statements from our leaders about the future of schengen and the european union. indeed, we risk losing a great european achievement, schengen, to which romania rightly aspires to join. this should be replaced by firm action and we should put aside the blame games and national rhetoric. as long as we continue like this, we will not be able to find any solution. we need joint european action, a review of the dublin system, which is outdated, and the implementation of a european mechanism for the effective monitoring and control of our external borders, with a rapid reaction capacity, as announced by the council, but which is still in its embryonic stage. and of course we need to increase cooperation with turkey, which is a key partner in meeting this challenge. that is why we must ensure that the joint action plan with turkey, agreed at the end of last year, is fully implemented by both sides: by us, the eu, and by turkey. the eu must give turkey concrete support and turkey must step up its efforts to manage the flow of migrants. both sides must act consistently.
ms wikström, do you accept the blue-card question?
mr president, the external borders must be secured and defended. member states must comply with the requirements of the schengen code. whoever is in trouble must be supported, willingly or unwillingly, by the european entities: frontex, for example, and, i hope, very soon, the european border guard. i call on the commission to develop as a matter of urgency common standards for assessing the level of border security as required by the internal security fund regulation. the schengen area must be defended at all costs. avoiding loss of life and reducing the flow of refugees cannot be achieved without stopping conflicts in the countries of origin and stopping people in the areas of departure. turkey and the north african states need support. the amounts decided must produce tangible results. the budgeting of these amounts shall be clear and transparent. the simplest solution is to transfer to the next year all the amounts not used in the current year. the current mff already provides for a low total. the use of 100% of the amounts already committed by the member states solves the need to finance contingencies. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. europe's external borders must be protected, secured and, of course, defended, no matter who is on the other side of the border. so, in the case of greece-turkey, it's the same thing. greece has an external border of europe, it has to fulfil everything that is required by the schengen code.
mr president, the refugee crisis has clearly demonstrated two things: the union's neglect of the security of the external borders and the lack of a common decision on how to deal with the refugee crisis in the member states. the wrong choices of the european authorities a few months ago have today negative social consequences that are felt first and foremost by our women and children, and the current situation is getting worse every day. firstly, how can the schengen borders be secure if the external borders are weak? this is a question that the european union has lost sight of as it has tried to impose immigration quotas on member states. the fact that greece is unable to protect and secure its borders or that there has been an inability to implement security measures can only lead to the conclusion that the european union should have adopted more clear support measures for the member states in advance. we cannot be partisans of the crimes committed by some so-called refugees against our own people. let's not forget that last year we chose to take refugees into the schengen area, but we kept out of the schengen area countries that share the same european values as, for example, romania and bulgaria. can we talk about solidarity again, gentlemen? can we really not see that this situation is going to lead to a clash of civilizations whether we want it or not? the fight between european citizens and the refugees, supported by us, by the european union, will gradually intensify. european citizens must not be offended because they are a christian majority. european women have the right to walk in the streets and feel safe. think ten times before you make any more wrong decisions!
mr president, turkey has about two million refugees at this time and needs to be supported in managing the flow of refugees. the three billion euro for refugee assistance also includes the contribution of the union's member states. considers it appropriate to vote on this mechanism as the union is currently the main donor in addressing the consequences of this crisis. but we need solutions other than financial ones (let's keep giving money), because this crisis will get worse in the period ahead. the effects of these conflicts among others, and the continuing flow of refugees must be countered through collective action. this is why effective cooperation with turkey is needed, but also transparency in the spending of the money turkey receives. finally, i would like to remind you of the "paradox of tolerance", which says that when a tolerant society tolerates an intolerant idea or culture, tolerance risks being destroyed. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i have noted the question you have raised, but we must give mrs macovei the floor, answer the question and then we should have discussed this. i got it.
reply to the question under the 'blue card' procedure by ivan jakovčić. the answer is simple: we need to work with all the countries that have refugees and we need to establish our common interest. it's not about welcoming everybody, en masse, into the european union, but being able to sort and send to arab states where people are safe.
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome what the last speaker in the conservative group has just said, namely that we must be nuanced when it comes to all these words, 'refugees', 'migrants', etc., but i would draw your attention to the fact that the first to cultivate this confusion is the british prime minister, david cameron. that is why we are now having enormous problems negotiating the british proposal, which is as much nonsense as this crisis. but i'm glad there are conservatives who understand the crux of the problem. that said, i would like to stress the issue of refugees in its external affairs dimension, particularly the fact that, as soon as the negotiations in geneva have been resumed, the european union is trying to exert its full weight on these negotiations. we are weak in this context because, it must be said, we have not heard the cry of the turks, the jordanians, the lebanese, who have been warning us for years about the refugee crisis and the efforts they have made. we answered them very, very late. that's a lesson we should learn. i would also like to say a word about the importance of our partnership with turkey, because i know that there are many people in this house who are quite irresponsible when it comes to turkey. for reasons of their own partisan business, they are prepared to mock turkey, to put it in impossible situations, without understanding that we need this partner to solve the refugee crisis.
in writing. the european union has been through a series of controversies over the refugee crisis. member states need to move beyond this polarization in relation to the redistribution of refugee quotas in the eu and work together in common action to better manage the situation of these people fleeing the terror of war. the commission has also provided information on the number of asylum applications submitted by the member states in the past year, including the number of applications submitted by the member states in the past year. in recent years, many political analysts have noted a departure from the concept that has been at the heart of the european union: solidarity. this is not only about solidarity between member states (the principle of the welfare state that redistributes income) but also about solidarity with third countries or with people whose integrity is threatened, such as syrian refugees fleeing war. we must never forget that the european union is a land of values and therefore these must be clearly reflected in our actions.
in writing. the council has presented us, through the foreign minister, with statistics showing that millions of refugees have been received unchecked, without distinguishing whether they are war refugees or economic refugees. this has put pressure on european citizens and has also induced terror. we are human beings and we must show solidarity. but we need organized solidarity, not chaos. the council and the commission should establish clear rules on the control of transit at the entry into europe, irrespective of the border, and on the conditions for asylum and return. we cannot have more europe in the union. there is a right to asylum, but also a right to safety in our own country. refugees must be helped, but they must respect our culture, our customs, our traditions, and not the other way around. i hope, mr president juncker and mr minister, that you will be urging the resolution of the cause and not the treatment of the effects.
in writing.– the schengen arrangement is a critical component of the single market, allowing for free travel of people and goods between member states. so it is a major facility designed primarily for the member states. this arrangement has been ‘saturated’ by the waves of refugees arriving in europe last year. consequently we are now in a less enviable position to have to suspend it, in order to control that refugee flux, thus depriving the citizens of the member states of its clear advantages. it is, therefore, a big step backwards, both in terms of upholding our own values – free travel – and in providing our citizens with a facility we, the older generations, have grown accustomed with and the new generations have grown up with. we have arrived here not because the schengen arrangement is not good, but because it was abused and its functioning conditions – proper screening at entrance – have not been applied properly. so, instead of suspending schengen, with all the consequences, it is advisable to review the rules for its proper implementation. i agree that that is easier said than done, given the internal implications of the refugee crisis upon some of the member states, especially germany, in front of crucial regional elections.
in writing.– eu asylum and migration policies have lamentably failed in 2015. we have to turn this failure into a functioning european response to the migration crisis. in order to do so we must understand what went wrong. we did not respect our own rules: neither the dublin regulation nor the schengen regulation was respected. we did not respect our own decisions: out of 5 hotspots in greece we have one; out of 6 in italy only 2. we did not secure the eu’s external borders, the european border and coast guard is still in its making. the european council made majority decisions when unanimity is the way to go in highly sensitive issues. it was decided by majority to relocate 160 000 refugees but not more than 300 have been effectively relocated since. relocation will not fly. finally we mixed up things that should not be mixed. there is confusion between refugees and migrants since we lack the criteria to distinguish between them. we also confuse migrants coming outside of the eu and ‘internal migrants’ who in fact are european citizens who benefit of the fundamental right to free movement. there is no more time. european crises needs european solutions, worked out in genuine solidarity.
mr president, the development of the post-2015 gender equality strategy is both an urgent and a concern at european level. as such, i believe it is essential for europe to improve the level of awareness of the public in the union on the issue of equal rights in the labour market in the field of labour law and in overcoming cultural stereotypes. on the other hand, there is a need to improve the skills and abilities in the field of equal opportunities and gender equality of managers and staff in local and central public authorities, social partners, civil society organisations and the media. in order to ensure that women's potential is fully exploited, there is a need to promote female entrepreneurship and self-employment by women in all fields of activity, especially as women earn on average 17.8% less than men in europe. such gender pay gaps have a significant impact on women's lifetime earnings as well as their pensions. we also need to engage in what agriculture means. the european commission must coordinate its efforts to include appropriate solutions for women in agriculture in the future strategy. but all this requires political will and a pragmatic approach on the part of the commission.
although the situation regarding the position of women in the labour market has improved in recent years, despite education and training, young women have not become more economically active. they also work for less than men. this has a major impact on the future, since today's earnings are a measure of tomorrow's pension. today, the gender pension gap is still large, making older women more vulnerable. in addition to the necessary regulations and their compliance, it is particularly important to contribute to changing our image of women's role in society. the previous strategy was a step in the right direction towards achieving gender balance, which is why the guidelines for the coming years are important. what steps are planned to further promote the training of women? what action do you intend to take to ensure that having children does not put women at a disadvantage in terms of the pay gap and retirement age? these questions are not trivial either, since current demographic trends in europe do not give much cause for optimism. childbearing is being postponed, and couples are having fewer children. member states should therefore encourage and encourage the adoption of children. one way of doing this is by allowing the various flexible labour market opportunities to be used. so women who want to have a family and are committed to their careers don't have to make a choice.
madam president, endocrine disruptors are potentially dangerous substances. these substances are all around us: in packaging, detergents, toys, personal hygiene products and pose multiple health risks. that's why they need to be identified, classified and regulated. the criteria for classifying these substances should be based on scientific evidence and not on economic considerations. when it had to set these criteria, the commission was hasty and only assessed the socioeconomic costs and benefits, instead of being primarily concerned with the impact on health. we're not talking about a minor issue with negligible impact. we're talking about a major public health problem that we need to address urgently. i see no sign from the commission that it understands this need to act quickly. on the contrary, he first postponed making a decision for a year, then misplaced his priorities.
madam president, the presence of endocrine disruptors in our environment raised concerns in recent years because harmful effects have been observed on reproduction, growth, the development of human life and the environment. endocrine disruptors represent a challenge, as their effects depend on both the level and timing of exposure, being especially critical when exposure occurs during development. some of my colleagues – and i am profoundly convinced that they have the sincere goal of protecting citizens’ health against possible endocrine disruptors in the best way – were harsh with the commission. however, i believe that – despite the court of justice decision – the original intention of the european commission to have an impact assessment first was the best way of arriving at criteria that are scientific and proportionate. the process is under way, and i welcome the determination, expressed here, of commissioner andriukaitis to speed up the process. there is no legal vacuum now; people are being protected by legislation that is in place: by the reach regulation, which applies for industrial chemicals. this eu regulatory framework is enforced and regularly updated with the latest science. the goal, in the end, is to define the criteria that can best identify substances that can actually cause harm under realistic conditions. this allows us to regulate: that is, to ban or severely restrict their use, as appropriate. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, mrs rivasi, i agree with you completely, i said the same thing. i also understood the european commission's initial intention to do a study to see exactly which criteria were clearer. if the scientific community does not support these criteria, it will be very difficult to define them properly.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. this is the first time, mr. weber, that i congratulate you on your speech. i hope to congratulate you on the answer you give to the question i ask. concretely, you lead a very large group in parliament. do you agree with what mr juncker is proposing, with a mechanism for the uk, specifically for the uk, to restrict the freedom of movement of workers?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i wanted to make a point of order. i also have a question. tell us if we picked up the card when our colleague hadn't even started talking or after. i disciplined myself to wait for our colleague to finish and picked up the card. that's the problem. my question to the colleague who has just spoken is this: do you advocate european union? and i want a european union and i want to have no uk exit from the european union. but what do you think about what the commission and the council are telling us? we have two europe: schengen states, non-schengen states, mechanism to restrict free movement. however, do we have a united europe or not, in your opinion?
in writing. ‒ union law requires that there be temporary protection instruments in the event of an increase in imports. in particular, where such an increase would cause economic damage to the european market and where there is a need to protect its producers, the union should make use of regional surveillance measures and safeguard measures in agreements. this is the case in the implementation of the preferential trade regime with the republic of moldova, which is, since november 2014, in the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the eu is moldova's largest trading partner, accounting for 46,4% of trade, and trade with moldova accounts for 0,1% of the union's total trade. i also appreciate that the anti-circumvention mechanism that will be applied provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation tariff, given that imports of certain agricultural products from moldova have exceeded a certain threshold without a justification as to their exact origin. i voted in favour of this report, welcoming and supporting the commission's proposal to protect the union market and its producers by temporarily suspending the tariff preferences in the association agreement between the eaec and the republic of moldova.
in writing. ‒ this file concerns the incorporation in eu law of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-moldova association agreement. the legislation can lay down the rules to be followed during the procedure and how decisions under the mechanism are to be taken. a safeguard measure may be imposed where a product originating in moldova is, as a result of the reduction or the elimination of customs duties, imported into the union in such increased quantities as to cause harm to the union industry. so far, no bilateral safeguard measure has been taken under the eu’s trade agreements. a safeguard measure may take the form of a suspension of a further reduction of the tariff rate, an increase in the rate of the customs duty (following the ‘lesser duty rule’). a safeguard measure must be limited for such a period of time as is necessary to prevent or remedy the serious injury to union industry. the association agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility to introduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i support the rapporteur’s approach and the aim to reach a quick first-reading agreement with the council.
in writing. ‒ the eu-moldova association agreement signed in june 2014 and provisionally applied as of september 2014 includes a bilateral safeguard clause, as is the case for the majority of eu trade agreements. the clause allows both parties (therefore also moldova) to temporarily suspend preferences in case their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party. the agreement also foresees an anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from moldova exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. we voted today on the implementing regulation which simply incorporates the two mechanisms into eu law in order to make them applicable in the eu. therefore the provisions related to the two instruments as agreed by the parties in the agreement have not been modified.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is largely based on comparable implementing regulations like eu/korea, eu/central america, eu/ colombia and peru. i have voted for this report that spells-out the obligation of the eu to consult with the moldovan authorities before implementing such a definitive safeguard measure, and that will harmonise the terminology of the commission proposal with the association agreement.
in writing. – i vote to support the two proposed amendments to the commission’s proposal of introducing a new regulation in the eu’s trade agreement with the republic of moldova. the european parliament’s proposed amendments should ensure that the safeguard clause and an anti-circumvention mechanism proposed by the commission are in line with the association agreement between the eu and moldova signed on 24 june 2014. more precisely, this implies that prior to any introduction of the safeguard clause it is required of the eu to deliberate the matter with the appropriate moldovan authorities. further, the amendments address the need for the commission to draft the regulation in a language corresponding to the association agreement and to include, in the regulation, a paragraph explicitly concerning the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu-moldova association agreement: safeguard clause and the mechanism to prevent circumvention. the bilateral safeguard clause allows preferences to be temporarily suspended if their application would cause an unforeseen and significant increase in imports, causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing country. this agreement also includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation tariff rate when imports of certain agricultural products exceed a certain threshold. the eu-moldova association agreement was signed on 24 june 2014 and the ep approved its conclusion on 13 november 2014. the agreement establishes a preferential trade regime - the complex and comprehensive free trade area, introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. the eu is moldova's largest trading partner, accounting for 46.4% of trade. in 2014, imports into the union from moldova increased by 20%, and imports of agricultural goods increased particularly by 30%. however, the duty-free export quotas were used to a modest extent by the moldovan producers.
in writing. ‒ an ambitious preferential trade regime, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), has been in place between the european union and georgia since september 2014, and the agreement was negotiated following the same approach as in the parallel negotiations with other countries in the region. the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner. the eu is responsible for 27.2% of georgia's trade with the eu, with turkey and azerbaijan in second and third place respectively. on the other hand, trade with georgia represents 0,1% of the eu's total trade, with a total value of eur 2,6 billion in 2014. the anti-circumvention mechanism provides for the possibility to reintroduce the mfn (i.e. most-favoured-nation) customs duty when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products originating in georgia exceed a given threshold (annual average import volume) without a proper justification as to their exact origin, supporting such an approach. i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the procedures to ensure the effective application of the agreement in order to prevent a possible negative impact on the union market.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the incorporation in the eu law of the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-georgia association agreement. the agreement has been provisionally applied since 1 september 2014. no fundamentally new conditions can be introduced during the legislative procedure which have not already been agreed during the negotiations with georgia. however, the legislation can lay down the rules to be followed during the procedure and how decisions under the mechanism are to be taken. the anti-circumvention mechanism provides for the possibility to introduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. an implementing regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary to put the instrument in place in the eu’s internal legislation to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism. in the report the committee adopted one amendment relating to the reports which the commission has to supply to parliament and council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism. measures adopted under the anti-circumvention mechanism are limited to a maximum of six months.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's approach and the aim to reach a quick first-reading agreement with council.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the eu and georgia was signed in june 2014 and has been provisionally applied as of september 2014. the agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the mfn customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. this implementing regulation incorporates the mechanism into eu law in order to make it applicable in the eu if necessary. being an implementing regulation, the provisions related to the mechanism as negotiated by the parties in the agreement have not been modified.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is largely based on comparable implementing regulations like eu/korea, eu/central america, eu/ colombia and peru. i have voted for this report that will harmonise the terminology of the commission proposal with the association agreement between the eu and georgia.
in writing. – an important element of the eu-georgia association agreement, the anti-circumvention mechanism, enables the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of particular agricultural goods and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed an established threshold without the needed justification of their exact origin. in order to properly apply this anti-circumvention mechanism, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to put in place the required instrument in the eu’s internal legislation is essential. the rapporteur highlights that the suggested regulation utilises the provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement, to which the european parliament gave its consent on 14 december 2014. adopting the proposed legislation proves necessary to implement certain obligations of georgia deriving from the anti-circumvention provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement to protect the eu producers if needed. in addition, the rapporteur embraces the reporting obligation of the commission, under which the commission shall submit an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation to the co-legislators as well as making it accessible to the public. for the reasons stated above, i have voted in favour of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the european union has developed a strong and consistent relationship with the georgian state over the past decade. this was driven by the tbilisi government's interest in having a predictable and globally influential strategic partner and the union's interest in stability in the south caucasus. the signing of the association agreement between the two parties in 2014 has contributed to strengthening good relations and deepening cooperation in all areas of common interest. however, european legislation provides for a number of limits in relation to countries with which the eu has signed association agreements, which concern imports of agricultural products without a justification of their exact origin. this is the anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the temporary suspension of imports of certain products (mainly agricultural, in the case of georgia). to avoid unwanted problems on the european market, this mechanism, which allows for a flexible approach when needed, needs to be adopted. its implementation is rather subject to exceptional conditions and does not prejudice the long-term european ambitions of the georgian state. rather, it is about protecting the economies of the two sides until they are compatible for greater integration.
in writing. i voted for the eu-georgia association agreement: the mechanism to prevent circumvention. this agreement includes a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which provides for the possibility to reintroduce the most-favoured-nation tariff when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products originating in georgia exceed a given threshold without a proper justification as to their exact origin. the inclusion of the 'circumvention clause' is necessary to avoid the importation into the eu of products from outside georgia through georgia by taking advantage of the provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement. the eu-georgia association agreement was signed on 27 june 2014 and approved by the european parliament on 18 december 2014. the eu is currently georgia's main trading partner, with 27.2% of georgia's trade with the eu, with trade with neighbours turkey and azerbaijan in second and third place respectively.
in writing. ‒ the european union respects the right of persons with disabilities to education and, in this respect, must also ensure that laws protecting intellectual property rights do not constitute an unreasonable or discriminatory barrier to access by persons with disabilities to cultural materials. given that the world health organisation estimated in 2010 that there were a total of 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, i believe that the union must be concerned about the rights of all its citizens, including those persons. or it means taking into account also petition no 924/2011 by dan pescod, a british national, on behalf of the european blind union (ebu) / royal national institute for the blind (rnib), on access for blind people to books and other printed products and ensuring equal opportunities. in conclusion, i believe that the european institutions and the member states must speed up the ratification process without making ratification conditional on the revision of the eu legal framework or the judgment of the court of justice of the european union; for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ here the petitions committee is making use of rule 216, para 2 which enables it to submit a short motion for a resolution. there will be a simple vote, without amendments or debate. the short resolution is calling on the council to accelerate the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty. signed by the eu in june 2014, the treaty focuses on copyright exceptions to allow greater distribution of books, in formats accessible to visually impaired citizens, thereby preventing discrimination of visually impaired and print disabled persons, who should have access to the same books as other persons. all except seven member states have ratified the treaty and this short resolution hopes to put pressure on these remaining countries to unblock. there are more than 26 million visually impaired individuals across europe with only 5% of all published books ever produced in accessible formats (less than 1% in developing countries).
in writing. ‒ visually impaired and print disabled persons should have access to the same books as other persons. this resolution is calling on the council to accelerate the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty, which focuses on copyright exceptions in order to allow greater distribution of books, in formats accessible to visually impaired citizens.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty is the first international agreement in the field of intellectual property rights which puts the public interest, not the interests of rightholders, first. no commercial advantage should prevent blind and partially sighted persons and persons with other reading disabilities from having free access to books that are accessible to them and from sharing these publications internationally. even in developed countries, only 5 percent of all books published are currently available in accessible formats, while in europe alone there are more than 26 million blind and partially sighted people. genuine equality of opportunity can be achieved not by loud declarations but by such concrete actions, and it is therefore surprising that some member states have taken this approach.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a multidimensional political project that places particular emphasis on ensuring equal rights for its citizens. a clearly disadvantaged category in our societies is that which includes people who are blind, partially sighted or who have difficulty reading. the world health organisation estimates that there are currently a total of 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe. at the same time, however, only 5% of all books published in developed countries are currently accessible to the visually impaired (braille). the eu citizens' petitions and in particular petition no 924/2011 on behalf of the european blind union highlight the problems in this area. the marrakesh treaty, signed in april 2014 by the eu and its member states, aims to facilitate access to published works for all visually impaired people. the provisions of this treaty cannot be implemented within the union unless it is ratified by all eu member states. in these circumstances, there is a need for coordinated efforts by all european decision-makers to support the elimination of this clear discrimination against visually impaired people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, which provides for the right of blind and partially sighted persons to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. the european parliament, in its resolution, notes with deep indignation that seven eu member states have formed a minority bloc which is preventing the ratification process of this treaty. according to the who, in 2010, there were a total of 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 partially sighted people in europe, with a total of 26 350 000 visually impaired people. only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are produced at any one time in formats accessible to blind and visually impaired people.
in writing. ‒ the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment have always been important objectives for the european union. to guarantee them, increased attention is needed to food that ends up being produced, traded and consumed within its borders. at the production stage, the risks to be monitored are linked to the genetically modified organisms. among them, genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 contains a protein that confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides or this substance is classified as probably carcinogenic to humans. however, no studies confirm this, and there is no scientific evidence linking glyphosate to cancer. i support a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and believe that this can be achieved while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i voted against the objection to the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2).
in writing. ‒ in october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on genetically modified (gm) food and feed and asked the commission to come up with a new one. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework which the commission acknowledges is not working in a satisfactory way. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution with regard to the authorisation of placing on the market products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72. the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the european union must have a single point of view on the problems facing all its states. there are values that we all aspire to as a people, and i am referring here to the need to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental interests and consumer interests when it comes to genetically modified food and feed. it's an area that i think we shouldn't venture into without having concrete data on the long-term implications. so asking the european commission to withdraw its draft decision authorising the use of genetically modified soybeans is, in my view, a good thing for the future of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the advances in agricultural science in recent decades have enabled contemporary societies to identify solutions to combat pests and diseases of various plants that affect their yield in producing the food they need. at the same time, experiments on certain plants have produced genetically modified varieties that are more resistant to pests and certain herbicides. the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) has been the subject of much controversy at european level, with concerns about their alleged effects on the human body. in order not to make hasty decisions until in-depth scientific studies have been carried out in this field, the european commission has avoided adopting a transhumance position, leaving it to the member states to take the measures they deem necessary. in the case of genetically modified soybean (fg72, mon 87708 × mon 89788, mon 87705 × mon 89788) resistance to herbicides may be harmful to the environment or to the health of consumers. for this reason, the european parliament has raised this objection, which is justified and is in fact a request for a more thorough assessment of the effects of gmos, in order to avoid any risks to the environment and european consumers.
in writing. ‒ environment and food safety must be the limiting framework for the development of the internal market, without which any economic progress would in fact be an attack on the health of all consumers, who are protected by the european treaties. either that protection must become effective, and we cannot talk about effectiveness when we want to approve products with a potential carcinogenic risk. on the other hand, the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean should not be excluded in the absence of specific scientific studies confirming the hazard of this substance to consumers. in this context, i have objected to the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ in october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on gm food and feed and asked the commission to come up with a new one. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework which the commission acknowledges is not working in a satisfactory way. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be rigorously assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution with regard to the authorisation of placing on the market products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ in this century, the development of agriculture is taking place at the micro-cellular level, and the risks that the union must monitor as a guarantor of the food safety of its citizens and of the protection of the environment revolve around the safety of genetically modified organisms. furthermore, we recall that poor diet is now by far the leading cause of disease and mortality worldwide - more than tobacco, alcohol, and lack of physical activity combined. it is becoming clear that ensuring union and global food security is not only an important objective undertaken by the union but also a situation requiring attention from the actors involved. however, in the absence of scientific studies confirming the negative effects that certain substances have on those who consume them, i believe that we should not take a radical position in withdrawing them from the market. in view of the need for concrete evidence, i voted against the resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ in october parliament rejected the new commission proposal on gm food and feed and asked the commission to come up with a new one. in the meantime, no new gm food/feed should therefore be authorised under the current legal framework which the commission acknowledges is not working in a satisfactory way. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health. the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be rigorously assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution with regard to the authorisation of placing on the market products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ air pollution from nitrogen oxides (no2) emissions causes 75 000 premature deaths in europe each year, with 93% of cases of exceeding normal concentrations occurring near roads, or this situation is of concern and requires specific measures. at the same time, addressing nox emissions from diesel engines should contribute to reducing the current high levels of no2 concentrations in ambient air. i voted against this objection because the withdrawal of the commission's draft regulation will cause the real driving emissions measures to be implemented with far too much delay, given that the current car emissions tests have been unchanged for some 30 years. in this context, i consider that the draft regulation proposed by the commission should be implemented immediately.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection as the draft commission regulation would result in a de facto blanket derogation from applicable emissions limits, and is therefore not consistent with union law, in that it is not compatible with the aim and content of regulation (ec) no 715/2007. the commission should withdraw the draft regulation and submit a new one without delay and no later than 1 april 2016, in order to introduce a real driving emissions test for all vehicles with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of emission control systems and enabling vehicles to comply with regulation (ec) no 715/2007 and its implementing measures.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal for several reasons. first, the european commission's proposal provides for a mechanism that reduces emissions by about five times and allows the car industry to switch their manufacturing technology for the next step in reducing emissions. as i have already said, we need to strike a balance between regulations for protecting the environment in europe and supporting industry, as long as europe is not the world's biggest polluter and as long as we do not have trade defence regulations for european industry in relation to non-european. i support environmental policies, but we need to implement them rationally. according to the commission's commitment, through commissioner elżbieta bieńkowska, it will monitor both the schedule of required emission reductions and the compliance of the car industry within a reasonable time.
in writing. i voted for a set of rules for light passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6) to allow for the rapid implementation of real-world co2 emissions testing so that all the requirements of eu legislation are met. we need consistent european rules that apply uniformly in all member states. the commission has come up with a feasible proposal that forces the machine building sector to comply. the commission has committed to closely monitoring real-world co2 emissions testing for all vehicles in the future to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems. it's a welcome thing to do. we need to promote an innovative and sustainable european industry that puts the interests of consumers first. i ask the commission to come up with new solutions in future legislative proposals for the car industry that are good for consumers and good for manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution that should introduce a new real driving emissions test for all vehicles. the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing power provided in the european commission’s regulation number 715/2007. a new regulation should be drafted by the commission and submitted by the 1 april 2016.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting for or against this motion for a resolution because i believe that at this moment we need more data on the real emissions of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. as regards the new commission proposal to which this resolution refers, i believe that it should be examined after we have been able to assess its application, to see to what extent it is appropriate to strike a balance between the emission reductions that everyone wants and the damage to the eu car industry.
madam president, i voted today on the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the trade in services agreement. it is a historically unique agreement in its size, in its depth and in the broad framework of countries it includes, countries all over the world, including the european union. this resolution recommends that the commission open doors for european union enterprises, also help these enterprises to enter the public procurement, telecommunications, financial and professional markets and also ensure that the best highly qualified professionals are able to work outside the european union. reducing bureaucracy is also part of these recommendations. but the problem is that, apart from that, each country has to ensure its own entry into the services market and not rely on what the european commission does.
in writing. ‒ tisa is an opportunity for the eu to consolidate its position as the world's leading exporter of services, and the framework for the negotiations must be a high level of transparency, dialogue and accountability to be successful. any trade agreement must offer more rights and lower prices for european consumers, more jobs and a higher level of protection for workers and many other benefits that are easier to pursue when there are more actors involved, pursuing the same objectives that are beneficial for the union. in order to achieve a balanced agreement and to respect the union's fundamental treaties, the commission must take account of the european parliament's position, which plays a decisive role in eu trade policy, and i therefore consider it justified to ask for up-to-date and complete information on the negotiations. furthermore, i believe that member states should be encouraged to get involved and consult national parliaments as well as local and regional authorities, keeping them informed of the progress of the negotiations. i support the recommendations of parliament and the opinions of the committees involved and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have been working as shadow rapporteur for the deve opinion on tisa and i believe our opinion sent a strong message to our colleagues in the inta committee, clarifying the fact that the impact of the trade and services agreements on developing countries has to be taken into account and, consequently, calling for impact assessments on developing countries by the commission. this is fundamental in order to ensure that the principle of policy coherence is respected. we urged the commission to continue to increase transparency and democratic accountability, and to increase accessibility to all public consolidated negotiation documents, as this is the way by which concerned civil society and citizens, including of developing countries, can be informed and involved in the process. the possibility that developing countries join the agreement cannot be excluded, and, in such cases, the approach has to be flexible, in order to ensure that their access to the global service market is fair. in a multilateral framework, the criteria for admission of developing countries cannot be the same as the ones for developed countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because a proactive approach is needed to increase the transparency of the european union's trade policies. the consolidation of the tsa requires effective cooperation between the eu and international democratic bodies, taking into account the needs of civil society. ongoing efforts to improve transparency in eu trade agreements are imperative for achieving the sustainable development goals, for the interests of european companies and european consumers, and for maintaining the stability of financial markets. the importance of tisa for member states is in facilitating job creation, as the european union is the main service provider, with tens of millions of service jobs in the european area. facilitating the export of these services to other countries will help expand the labour market, which will have a positive impact on the development of the european union. at the same time, allowing non-european companies access to the eu services market will broaden the range of options and reduce prices for businesses and customers alike.
in writing. ‒ trade in services represents the new engine of the world economy. in the eu it is estimated that the services sector accounts for more than 70% of its gdp. tisa is therefore a crucial opportunity for eu service providers to have access to other markets and benefit from a level playing field. this would create new jobs in the eu and would therefore substantially contribute to our growth. however this trade agreement should not undermine our public services which should therefore be excluded from the scope of the agreement and governments’ right to regulate in the interest of their citizens from consumer protection to data privacy. i voted for a resolution that finds the right balance between these two sets of priorities.
in writing. ‒ a decisive role is played by the european parliament in the eu’s trade policy, thus the european parliament must work to ensure a good agreement is reached that should benefit european companies and consumers. i have voted for this report on the tisa negotiations that must ensure more reciprocity in market access, create a global level playing field and provide tangible benefits for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). this agreement represents an opportunity for the eu to consolidate its position as the world's leading exporter of services, with a share of 25% of world services exports, which allowed it to achieve a trade surplus of eur 170 billion in 2013. the services sector employs almost 70% of the eu's workforce and accounts for 40% of the value of goods exported from europe. i would stress the potential of tisa to boost job creation in the eu. citizens' trust in eu trade policy needs to be strengthened not only by ensuring positive outcomes in terms of employment and welfare for citizens and society, but also by ensuring the highest level of transparency, commitment and accountability, by maintaining a constant dialogue with social partners, civil society, local and regional authorities and any other relevant stakeholders, and by setting clear guidelines in the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe it is essential that, as a result of the negotiations and the tisa agreement, european citizens get quality products at lower prices and competitive european companies can more easily access the markets of partner countries. at this point, it is clear that the eu is one of the most attractive markets for companies from other countries and it is right that through this agreement european companies should be treated equally by their partners, which will benefit all eu citizens by creating new jobs. at the same time, consideration should be given to protecting the interests and areas of interest of european states and companies such as those specialising in audiovisual, public services and data protection.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a more careful negotiation of the trade in services agreement can reduce the obstacles faced by european smes in their path towards internationalisation of the services they provide. the eu is one of the world's leading exporters of services. one third of all services are provided by smes. however, the costs of cross-border services are increased by non-tariff barriers, which affect the proper functioning of the sme sector in the field. there is still a huge untapped potential for the eu in the global services market. the commission must take a fair and firm stance in the negotiation of tisa in favour of the economic environment of all member states and in particular in favour of emerging economies that can deliver sustainable and strong long-term growth to the eu economy. at the same time, it is very important that the agreement on trade in services does not in any way prevent the proper functioning of the eu and the member states in the application of social and labour rules. the european commission must take into account the recommendations of the european parliament and the member states in developing an agreement for the benefit of all parties involved, but above all for the benefit of european citizens.
in writing. i voted on the report on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). in the rapporteur's view, tisa negotiations should ensure more reciprocity in market access, create a level playing field globally, deliver tangible benefits to consumers and ensure stakeholder access to discussions, in order to facilitate future multilateralisation. i welcome the attention the rapporteur has paid to the sme sector in the tisa agreement. it is also noted that this report specifies that public and cultural services, the fundamental rights to data privacy and fair working conditions, and the right to regulate are non-negotiable and must be unequivocally excluded from the scope of this agreement.
madam president, i supported the european commission's strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. i also supported the european parliament's resolution on equality between women and men in the european union, which was voted in 2015. i voted against this resolution today, not because i am against equality between men and women and equal opportunities, but because i do not like and it is ineffective to adopt resolution after resolution, document after document, paper after paper that is not put into practice. we go home to the electorate, and what do we say: have we voted on a resolution on gender equality before? but we are not saying that we are not actually pursuing the implementation of the commission's strategy and previous resolutions. let's see these previous resolutions that provide for gender equality implemented and not continue to pass new resolutions that become unnecessary!
in writing. ‒ the right to equal treatment is a defining right at the heart of european society, crucial for its future development, and its implementation must respect the different cultural contexts and practices in the member states. this right, in order not to remain at the declaratory level, should be applied from legislation, in practice, then in case law and with impact in everyday life. or it can only do so through clear, transparent, legitimate and public communication, supported by all eu institutions at the highest political level. only then will we be able to make progress in implementing the principles of equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men at european level. however, given that the new strategy for gender equality and women's rights post-2015 does not contain enough elements to guarantee that we are really talking about gender equality between men and women, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a major player in promoting gender equality and combating discrimination. although the union has taken on the specific task of mainstreaming gender equality in all its activities, despite gradual progress in this area, many inequalities still persist between women and men. in the eu, around 42% of those regularly involved in agriculture are women, and three out of ten eu farms are run by women. promoting the principle of equal opportunities for men and women, together with ensuring an increased participation of women in economic and social life as full protagonists, must be a constant concern at european level. i believe that the european commission, together with the member states, must help promote a strategy that leads to job creation for rural women as well and, by implication, to decent pensions for retired women in the eu who live in poor conditions, work a lot or have worked in agriculture and who have no pensions or whose pensions are very low.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one objective of the treaty, and it is essential as a strategic objective to achieve the overall eu objectives, such as the employment rate target within the europe 2020 strategy. women’s rights and gender equality is a core value of the eu. it seems that the commission shows willingness to downgrade its action in the field, with a lack of concrete benchmarks and dedicated budget, without which progress made on the targets and indicators is neither measurable nor achievable. the commission should instead adopt a transparent and public communication for a ‘new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights post-2015’, in line with its european and international objectives and agenda, and inform us as to when it will present its official strategy on gender equality.
in writing. ‒ meps voted on several resolutions on the strategy to be implemented to achieve equality between men and women. i support actions aimed at ensuring equal pay, in particular, provided that it is a question of aligning women's wages with men's and not the other way around. i am opposed to all quota requirements, particularly in the boards of directors of companies. these compulsory quotas turn women into adjustment variables to satisfy legal constraints, thus negating their personal competence and aspirations. of the four motions for resolutions tabled, i finally supported the one that was most respectful of the principle of subsidiarity and the cultures of the member states, while encouraging better pay for women.
in writing. ‒ the gender equality report highlights this core value of the european union and shows that it is a determining factor in achieving european objectives such as improving the employment rate. for sustainable development, the european union needs to mainstream gender equality and women's empowerment in its trade policy, and the principles of inclusion and equity need to be applied in legislation and case law, at procedural, structural and political levels, as well as in everyday life. legislative proposals that address the current needs of potential women entrepreneurs, such as maintaining a work-life balance, can positively influence their involvement in the labour market. thus, through regulations and legislation adapted to the requirements of european society, horizontal and vertical gender segregation in women's access to and participation in the european labour market can be drastically reduced by facilitating entrepreneurship for the creation of a sustainable and inclusive growth economy. it is time to end the gender gap in employment, function and pay.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a core value of the european union. it is very important to achieve the overall eu objectives, such as the employment rate target within the europe 2020 strategy. the current strategy ended in 2015. the european parliament in june 2015 urged the commission to present a new dedicated strategy. the commission presented in december its ‘strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019’ staff working document which does not have interinstitutional value.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on member states to take further steps to address equality issues, tackle violence against women and ensure equal access and equal opportunity in health, employment and education.
in writing. ‒ equality of opportunity and gender equality is at the heart of the european project, as a fundamental value that defines us as a model political and administrative alliance for the whole world. given that the idea of nominating a woman for the post of un secretary-general was also born in the european parliament, i am confident in our ability to bring about the change in mindset needed to achieve a system that is fair and balanced between women and men. however, the commission is not sufficiently involved in the transparent communication of the objectives of the strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2015-2020. this communication from the european parliament is a call to the commission and the council to make european commitments to set clear and strategic objectives to protect the fundamental principle of equal opportunities and gender equality in the eu against discrimination of any kind.
blue-card question. – madam president, i am speaking as a friend of serbia, but i would like to ask whether you think that serbia needs a lot of improvement in terms of the rights, freedoms and security of national minorities. secondly, what do think about the fact that the serbian government sometimes engages in anti-eu rhetoric? do you not feel that this government should refrain from this? also they sometimes try to manipulate the public on this issue.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, david mcallister, on his report highlighting serbia's progress towards european integration. of course, these developments allowed serbia to open the first chapters of negotiations with the union on 14 december. i'm very glad that this happened. this is a major point in this country's european journey. i would like to mention in this context the situation of the romanian minority in serbia. the mcallister report contains a substantial paragraph on the subject of minority protection, a paragraph to which i have contributed by amendments. it's not the first time we talk about the rights of the romanian minority, which must become a reality, that it's about representation, access to education, religious services or the press. finally, as the rapporteur of this parliament for bosnia and herzegovina, i would like to say that there are some ambiguities in belgrade that need to be cleared up. in particular, i think that prime minister vučić has to choose very clearly between the position of russia, which supports the planned referendum in republika srpska, and alignment with the european position, which sees in this referendum a blocking factor of the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. i am pleased to welcome the presidency of the council here, which will receive bosnia's request in a few days' time, on 15 february, and i am convinced that this will be an important moment.
madam president, i too want the integration of serbia, but for the good of the people, not for the politicians. so i'm going to say a few critical things: 1. the press: in serbia, journalists are subject to intimidation by politicians, they are threatened, they are even physically assaulted. this has to stop, because there is no democracy without freedom of the press; 2. the judiciary: i am glad that serbia has adopted an action plan on judicial reform, but the most important thing is implementation. if we don't see investigations, final convictions for politicians, oligarchs, businessmen who made their fortunes in the fog of transition, then nothing is credible. it's a plan on paper; 3. to also make progress on the path to accession, serbia must review its foreign policy towards russia and move decisively westwards.
madam president, i first of all welcome mr mcallister's report on serbia. as president of the informal group 'friends of serbia' and as a romanian mep, i am very pleased to see chapters 32 and 35 opened, the latter concerning the process of normalising relations with kosovo. this demonstrates serbia's seriousness and commitment to the european integration process. i take this opportunity to congratulate serbia on its constructive approach to the migration crisis, compared to other member states of the european union. at the same time, i believe that serbia must step up its efforts in the protection of minorities and their non-discriminatory treatment, with a focus on education, access to media and religious services in the language of national minorities. the process of european integration requires a permanent political will, effort and sacrifice. that's why i think it's imperative that all the european institutions show their support for serbia. we must reassure the pro-european serb people that their efforts and those of the authorities are paying off and that their place is in the european union.
i think that recently there have been steps taken by both serbia and the european union to accelerate the country's european integration. this is certainly encouraging, but i would also like to draw attention to the situation of national minorities. the aim of the accession negotiations is to establish a lasting mechanism that will grant irrevocable powers and opportunities to the province of vojvodina, strengthen the powers of the national councils and regulate all sub-areas that legitimate minority organisations consider important for the future of their communities. the coming period is important because experience shows that a major-minority relationship may start to decline after accession, as has happened in romania and slovakia. however, it is important that commitments are made before accession, as in romania the minority law adopted by the government in 2005, two years before accession, has not yet been adopted by the legislature and the eu is no longer able to enforce it.
without the accession of the western balkan countries to the eu, a united europe is unthinkable, and kosovo cannot be left out of this process, although there is undoubtedly much work to be done by its leaders. it would help to accelerate reforms and strengthen relations if the five member states which for some reason have not yet done so also formally recognised kosovo. the secession of kosovo from serbia cannot in any way be considered as a process which would have been the natural development of kosovo's autonomy. on the contrary, i did. territorial autonomy in the territory of the member states reduces ethnic tensions and contributes to the internal cohesion of the country. the example of kosovo shows the terrible consequences that can result when the ethnic majority in a state ignores the needs and aspirations of the minority. it is therefore a further argument for the need for well-functioning territorial autonomy, rather than a dangerous precedent for secession.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think that the majority of the house is clear that we need the full integration of the western balkans into the european union. the european union is the only way to guarantee peace, stability, reconciliation, harmony and economic development, and all the uncertainty and irritation that some have expressed today can only be resolved if there is inclusion, if there is a european perspective. i cannot honestly imagine, even for strategic and security reasons, that there is a white spot or a black hole here in the western balkans, so to speak, where european rules and competences and the rule of law are not guaranteed. it would probably have far more serious consequences. we must work here on the development of these countries. there's no question about it, we're not exactly where we want to be. but i think that this necessary process - and the term process is at the forefront and less negotiation - is inevitable: these countries must be brought closer to the european union in their economic, social and legal development. for kosovo, the stabilisation and association agreement is the most appropriate instrument at the moment to promote this path accordingly. what is important now is implementation, and all that can be done is to appeal to all the political forces in kosovo to commit themselves to this task, to face up to it. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. there are national objectives, so to speak, and the european perspective should, in any case, unite the vast majority of political actors in kosovo. the only thing that can be done here is to appeal to the people in charge in kosovo to come together here, to talk, to discuss and debate and ultimately to make the political decisions that are in the interests of the country and to refrain from any form of violence or insurrection. the commission will continue to make every effort to bring kosovo closer to the european perspective, to europe, within the limits of its possibilities. visa liberalisation has already been mentioned, or the strengthening of the rule of law, the improvement of the business climate. don't forget: kosovo still generates more than a third of its revenue from customs duties today - in a europe without customs duties, this is no longer sustainable. we must therefore work now to change this slowly so that the conditions are then in place. we must also address the high unemployment rate, the brain drain we are seeing in this region, and all these are the necessary measures - as i said, in my view, without alternative - to bring kosovo into the picture and to contribute to peace, stability and prospects for people in the region, so that they can stay in the region and not be forced to emigrate, for example, within europe.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i would like first to express my sincere gratitude to the rapporteur ulrike lunacek for the very important work she has done on the important region of kosovo. kosovo has a very long history, as you know, with lots of violence, and i think some of you were referring to that this afternoon. i think that is correct. if we look at the situation since 1999 we see enormous progress, and that progress has to be reinforced. it has sometimes gone in cycles up and down, but i can tell you that the european union will continue to assist kosovo, including through its strength and presence on the ground. but obviously the primary responsibility for progress lies with kosovo, with its leaders, with its institutions and with civil society. reforms are crucial, and they will require the political leaders to live up to their responsibilities for the good of kosovo and of its citizens. key eu- related reforms are essential, not just to please the european union but because they are in the interests of kosovo itself. on the political crisis we are obviously following the situation with concern with many of you. we have made it clear that violence for political purposes is not acceptable and have appealed to all sides that challenges need to be addressed as part of a joint effort through political dialogue. madam rapporteur, i think you were referring also to the kosovo constitutional court. as we all know, it has ruled that the association/community of serb majority municipalities is to be established, as provided by the first agreement in accordance with the constitution. it will now be essential to work concretely on the drafting of the statute of the association/community in the framework of this dialogue. you also spoke about the european aspirations of the people of kosovo. of course i have heard some of the language again, i think, from some of the representatives on that side of the corner with a known anti-islamic language which has, in my view, nothing to do with the issue we are discussing today. when i represent the council here, i would really like to appeal to you to confine yourselves to arguments that have to do with the case itself and not with religious discrimination. we should also acknowledge that visa liberalisation is a process based on conditions. i would say that. of course we hope it will be possible. as ms lunacek states, there is progress but it is not enough, and now the work has to be done to make it enough. i understand it in the prospect for the young people of kosovo: they want to travel. the visa can help there, but at the same time i think commissioner hahn mentioned that combating corruption and organised crime, and the independence of the judiciary and the specialist chambers, are really important elements in this. this is a conditions-based policy. we will continue to support kosovo in its reform efforts with financial assistance and expertise through eulex, and if kosovo delivers on its obligations then of course we can consider and honour the commitments. ultimately that, i think, will mean that the people of kosovo will be able to travel freely like all other europeans. lastly, i wanted to mention the importance of the entry into force of the saa. after the consent that you have given, the council needs to adopt a decision on the conclusion. it is planned for 12 february and then the agreement enters into force on the first day of the second month following notification that internal procedures have been completed. it could be possible by 1 april or 1 may.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2)) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 february 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the electoral process in haiti (2016/2560(rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya (2016/2537 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, the latest information we have received from libya is of a country on the brink, as was mentioned before, who knows how many times in this house. the humanitarian situation is disastrous and needs immediate relief. daesh has managed to put down roots. it used to have only a few hundred fighters on the ground, now there seem to be thousands. it is easy to understand what it means in terms of eradicating them. a political solution with a government of national accord is essential – imperative – and we call on the house of representatives to show a spirit of compromise and to endorse the new list of ministers once it is proposed, hopefully in the coming hours. but this will only be a small step in the right direction, because the challenges ahead are many and all of them are urgent. let me not miss another important point: until now, sanctions against certain people were threatened but never put in place. it is now time to be more concrete and effective and to apply sanctions against those people who undermine the political solution for libya. the new government will have to tackle the disastrous humanitarian and security situation in the country, which is already in the wind. to do so, it needs the help of the eu and the international community. as the president of nigeria, mr buhari, mentioned this morning, the situation in libya is not only a local problem, it is becoming a major regional one, with huge consequences for a region which is already confronted with too many crises. today libya desperately needs a united army to eradicate daesh, but this will not be enough if it is not complemented with all the necessary means from the international community.
mr president, when we look at libya, we have the impression of déjà vu. the political situation is once again at an impasse. the tobruk parliament, which is recognized by the international community, has just rejected the government formed under the auspices of the un. the hopes that had been raised by the signing of the political agreement last december were soon dashed. the union must now do all it can to make this agreement a reality through the formation of a government of national unity that is credible and legitimate in the eyes of all libyans. while they fail to agree on a government, the islamic state group is taking advantage of the instability and dissent to further its influence. this terrorist organization threatens not only the security of the country but also its economic survival. by targeting oil infrastructure, he is endangering the only source of income for libyans, who are facing a catastrophic economic situation. the libyan conflict must of course be resolved through diplomacy, but military support cannot be ruled out. one thing is certain, the libyan government will not be able to ask for our military help to stabilize the country if that government does not exist. military intervention by the coalition countries cannot be considered without an effective political strategy accepted by all libyans. we must work hand in hand with them to define this strategy.
mr president, supporting militarily the toppling of gaddafi, europe and the united states were wrong in not providing support to libya after the intervention. everybody assumed that the libyan institutions were strong and stable enough, despite the fact that the country was the playground of a single dictator for 42 years. four years after the fall of gaddafi and a horrible civil war – the end of which is only now in sight – the advance of daesh should not come as a surprise. drawn by the oil infrastructures of libya, the terrorist group gains ground in a war-torn country with porous borders, which lacks the structures to resist its advance. we should draw the consequences of our inaction until now and provide all the necessary financial, political and security assistance we can in order to support the establishment of a functional and inclusive government of national accord and a state strong enough to withstand the spread of the cancer that is daesh.
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2016/2538 ((rsp)).
before this debate, which is about to begin, i would like to welcome ms mitzy capriles de ledezma, nominated for the 2015 sakharov prize, and her delegation from venezuela, who are following this debate on the situation in venezuela from the diplomatic box.
madam president, mr minister, the european parliament, the commission and the council, but not least the member states and the relevant international institutions, must have as their main concern the strengthening of an economic environment capable of guaranteeing the security of investment and international trade. the creation of a harmonised legal framework for the fair and effective resolution of international investment disputes is likely to enhance investor confidence. in this context, we appreciate the efforts of the un commission on international trade law, which focused its work on introducing the concept of transparency in international investment arbitration, culminating in the adoption of the un convention on the application of rules of transparency to arbitration for investor-state disputes. the signing of this convention by the european union would therefore generate greater security of investment, with positive implications for economic growth in the member states and, of course, a substantial increase in jobs. we also believe that member states should be allowed to sign the convention individually, but taking into account their bilateral investment treaties. today, unfortunately, the ttip negotiations, which the european union so badly needs, are not going well, precisely because of the issues of dispute settlement through arbitration. it is therefore important to establish a set of procedural rules at international level that ensure transparency and accessibility to the public from the start of arbitration proceedings to their conclusion.
madam president, nobody can claim that violence against women in europe is a crime perpetrated only by immigrants. sadly, millions of women in europe experience sexual violence or harassment in the eu every year. according to the 2012 survey of the eu agency for fundamental rights, one in five women in the eu had experienced sexual harassment and 2% had experienced sexual violence in the 12 months before the interview. but we cannot deny either that it was mostly immigrant men that mugged, sexually harassed and assaulted more than 600 women outside cologne station. what was different in this case was that the attacks were not carried out in a hidden way; the perpetrators were making a public spectacle of instilling fear and humiliating the victims, being well aware that what they were doing was not acceptable in western european culture. this is why we should not minimise the significance of what happened in cologne and make sure that those who commit such acts are brought to justice. it does not follow from this that we should not offer asylum to those who are truly fleeing from persecution and death, or that we should not condemn, in the strongest way, attacks by the extreme right on immigrants, which could lead to an unstoppable spiral of violence. the main lesson we should draw here is that if the receiving societies are to integrate asylum seekers, they must first change this attitude of vengeful aggressiveness and educate them to adapt to basic european values.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although i do not live in an island country, as mr schwab said, i am very well aware of the problem facing the islands, as indeed do the countries of the eastern part of the european union. finally, the european union's internal market must lead to cohesion policies that bring living standards up to a similar level, and i believe, commissioner, that what you have said here - and first of all, thank you for participating in the debate - that you are thinking about some indices, for example the human development index, because any cohesion policy must aim at increasing the quality of life, are welcome indicators and i suggest you take into account cohesion policies in the eastern countries, where we also have similar problems to those in the islands. i think this is a good example of the importance of local and regional authorities in the public-private partnership they have to play in the development and application of cohesion funds.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you very much for your contributions. as you know, i consider that our main partners in regional policy are the local and regional authorities, the presidents of the more than 280 regions. we have regular appointments. i think they are the closest to the people, they understand the local needs, the policies and initiatives that can change people's lives in the areas of job creation, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport. i know, on the other hand, that these regions have their own limitations. first, they need more than national authorities to provide budget support and co-finance projects. i also share your view that cities have a very important role to play. i am grateful to the dutch presidency for placing such a high priority on the urban agenda. cities in the european union, whether capital cities or small and medium-sized towns, are home to over 70% of europe's population. they are engines of growth and job creation. i am also - and the whole european commission is - grateful to the european parliament for its support and contribution to the principle of partnership, to which we naturally attach great importance. i share mr van nistelrooij's view that there needs to be a public debate on how this partnership principle and the principle of multi-level governance is applied. in fact, i will be in the committee of the regions' plenary next week to discuss this subject, and i am sure that i will be very pleased to come and discuss it with you. i think that there is a need for an exchange of good practice in this respect. as i was saying, there are countries that have this culture, this tradition of developing projects together with civil society organizations, with academia. in other countries, local authorities feel that they are the only ones who can make decisions without consulting citizens and their representatives. so it is one reason why we have paid increased attention to making sure that local and regional authorities are really involved in the negotiation of partnership agreements and operational programmes. you know very well that in the new programming period this principle is an ex ante conditionality. i cannot answer all those who have asked questions, but mr jakovčić asked a question that was repeated in the speech of other colleagues. i would like to say that every country has the right to organize itself as it wants. it is important that the organisation and implementation of projects comply with the regulations and the legality of the management of european funds. we have countries like poland, for example, which is a centralized state, but which has done very well in the area of european funds, but we also have, for example, the experience of france, which has now moved to a decentralized system and which works very well. of course, as i said, every country has the right to organize itself as it wants. in any event, we will continue to monitor the implementation of the partnership principle on the basis of article 5 of the regulation on common provisions for european and investment funds. on the refugee issue, i'd like to address your concerns. we are not forcing any state, any city, any region to use european funds. i've sent this letter to all the ministers to let them know that we're willing to change the operational programs. we are aware that a year ago, when these were drawn up, this refugee challenge did not exist. as i said, italy is the only country that has asked for changes to the operational programmes and we have already allocated 220 million euros for mobile hospitals, kindergartens, social issues for the integration of migrants. other countries, such as france, the netherlands, germany, already use european funds for the integration of migrants, but there is no link in our regulations between the allocation of european funds and the refugee problem. i'd like to make one final clarification. i'm quite surprised to see a ukip representative talking about the need for european funds. i know you come from a less developed region, which has suffered a lot, where they were closed mines. i will be delighted to join you and show the people of the uk how cohesion policy has helped to bring about job re-employment and job creation in such a hard-hit region, and perhaps we can help to reinforce together this idea of solidarity and the need for a united europe. thank you very much and of course we will continue to discuss this subject.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. local authorities are the main actors responsible for implementing cohesion policy. they are in direct contact with citizens and always respond to their needs. however, in some member states, excessive centralisation means that the local level is less taken into account in decision-making. a step preceding legislative initiatives is the process of public consultation of citizens. unfortunately, there is a low participation of local actors in these consultations in countries with centralised systems. measures are therefore necessary to increase the involvement of those authorities and to identify ways of making public consultations as attractive as possible. moreover, i am convinced that we can contribute to decision-making accountability at these levels by encouraging participatory governance measures. we have tools such as iti and dlrc, which aim to implement local initiatives by increasing stakeholder involvement and access to finance to exploit local development potential. vertical partnerships between actors at different levels and the involvement of private sector partners guarantee the success of these initiatives.
in writing.– esif represents the eu’s main investment policy tools with a total budget of €454 billion for 2014-2020. the esif budget for romania will deliver a critical mass of investments for the following programmes: rural development programme – €8,127,996,402; aid for the most deprived operational programme €441,013,044; human capital operational programme €4,236,838,744; administrative capacity operational programme €553,191,489; european maritime and fisheries fund operational programme €168,421,371; large infrastructure operational programme €9,418,524,484, €1,329,787,234; regional operational programme €6,700,000,000; and the technical assistance operational programme €212,765,958. the allocated esif budget for my country totals €31,278,538,726 which represents approximately 13% of the total esif budget. i support the calls in this report underlining the key role played by local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu’s strategies and in achieving cohesion policy objectives. the report reiterates that the european code of conduct and the reinforced partnership principle will set out legal involvement of local and regional authorities providing minimum requirements for their involvement in all phases of preparation and implementation of the operational programmes. the report concludes that these funds are essential for europe’s as well as romania’s ability to address medium and long-term development challenges.
in writing. regional development cannot be achieved without the strong involvement of local public authorities. the managers of european communities, urban or rural, are best placed to decide on priorities and programmes for local and regional development. given the continuing need to bring decision-making closer to european citizens, i support increasing the role of local and regional authorities in shaping european investment policies. the appeal to the commission is justified. local authorities can play a decisive role in regional development, job creation and economic growth only if we take into account that non-federal states need procedures that bring local government closer to investment structures. the commission must come up with concrete solutions to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the eu. limited resources at the level of some local governments remain the main obstacle to the contracting and co-financing of massive development work, from transport and infrastructure to health or the environment. for example, how many of the projects under consideration or ongoing in the investment plan for europe are initiated and managed by european local public authorities? doubtless too few.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in crimea, in particular of the crimean tatars (2016/2556(rsp)).
the author. madam president, i want to say that i am very pleased that we are finally discussing crimea today. my political group has been trying for more than half a year to put the discussion of crimea on the agenda of this assembly and i must say that we have had very serious opposition from the other political groups. the only group that has supported us has been the conservatives, until this month. the reason is the ambiguous attitude towards russia, in fact, and towards the occupation of the crimean peninsula. we are at a time when a major political group in parliament is asking us to go as an official delegation to moscow. i think it is unacceptable to take such a step until all our colleagues in parliament who are on the kremlin's blacklist are not removed from that list and also until russia leaves crimea. it seems to me that normalizing relationships requires this step.
madam president, i am pleased to be able to speak at this point and to say a sentence which has already been said by my predecessor, mr štětina. as a czech, i am very proud that the tatar leader mustafa dzhamilyev protested against the occupation of czechoslovakia in 1968, and i am glad that now we are ideologically returning support to this nation, which was oppressed in the soviet union for the whole 20th century and is now being oppressed again by russia. it is very good that a resolution has been tabled here today calling on russia to refrain from oppressing the tatars, to respect their basic human rights. there were sad facts about how tatar media is suppressed, how tatars are disappearing in crimea. only one number that hasn't been hit here yet - 20,000 tatars left crimea last year because of this pressure and went to ukraine. so the tatars are leaving their homeland again, leaving crimea. we can't allow that to happen, and we need to keep the pressure on russia and keep this issue on the table.
this is based on rule 164 so it is noted.
member of the commission.– madam president, almost two years have passed since the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol by the russian federation, which the european union does not recognise and continues to condemn. in addition to being a grave violation of international law, the illegal annexation has had a serious negative impact on the human rights situation. the systematic curtailment of residents’ basic human rights and fundamental freedoms is an emblematic feature of the current situation on the peninsula. the imposition of russian laws and citizenship has created a situation of legal uncertainty and discrimination. the crimean tatar community and tatar residents supporting the territorial integrity of ukraine are paying a particularly high price for the views they express. public events in simferopol to commemorate the 1944 deportation have not been allowed. tatar media outlets have been closed and the mejlis, a self-governing body of crimean tatars and its activists, has been prosecuted. the appearing cases of enforced disappearances, torture and killing of young crimean tatars have not been properly investigated so far. high representative mogherini discussed these cases when she met in person the representative of the mejlis of the crimean tatar people in ukraine in november 2015. let me also stress the eu’s concern over the detention and sentencing of oleg sentsov and alexander kolchenko. their case, which the eu has monitored, is in breach of international law and elementary standards of justice. the eu will remain vocal in demanding their immediate release and safe return to ukraine. finally, the eu has repeatedly called for full, free and unrestricted access for international human rights actors to the whole territory of ukraine, including crimea and sevastopol. we welcome those missions which have taken place so far: the mission of the council of europe’s commissioner for human rights, nils muižnieks, in autumn 2014; the unofficial mission of turkish prominent persons in spring 2015; and the continued work of the non—governmental crimean field mission on human rights. we also praise the efforts of the un and oecd, autonomous institutions which have so far been denied access to the peninsula but document human rights abuses using a wide variety of sources. we very much hope that the most recent mission, dispatched by the secretary—general of the council of europe last week and headed by ambassador gérard stoudmann, will pave the way for an improved human rights situation in the crimean peninsula.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
in writing.– i welcome the decision of the council of europe to send a delegation to assess the human rights situation on the crimean peninsula, especially because for over a year now no other international organisation was allowed in there. following annexation, the changes carried out by the new authorities dramatically restricted a vast range of human rights of residents, particularly those who were opposed to the annexation, the tatar minority but also ukrainians. i would especially point out the suppression of the mejlis – the self-governing body of crimean tatars – as well as the intimidation, expulsion or incarceration of prominent leaders of the tatar community. i therefore strongly support the continuation of sanctions against russia as long as the illegal occupation of crimea and the blatant human rights violations continue.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on bahrain: the case of mohammed ramadan (2016/2557(rsp)).
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i am categorically against the death penalty and the use of torture and i believe that nothing can justify the use of these measures by any government. i hope that the bahraini government will also reconsider these measures, and i think they can do that, because they have shown commitment and a very good, positive trajectory in this regard. however, i believe that whatever resolutions we make in the european parliament against some small gulf states, as long as we continue to use a double standard in our dialogue and in our relations with third countries, we will fail to be true defenders of human rights. a recent report by amnesty international shows that iran leads the world in the use of the death penalty and executions are very common, at a rate of about two to three executions a day. madam president, i believe that when we stop speaking selectively about these human rights abuses, we can really support people where they need it, including in iran.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me first stress that since the events of 2011 the eu has been closely monitoring the situation in bahrain. the eu has been consistently engaging with local authorities at all levels, maintaining constant contacts with a wide range of bahraini stakeholders and activists. bahrain is an important partner in the gulf region and has an important role to play in ensuring the stability of the gulf region, which can best be achieved by strengthening the existing framework for the protection of human rights and individual freedoms. the eu will therefore continue to maintain an active dialogue with the country and its government and support bahrain’s stability and development. we consider that this objective can be best achieved through a process of inclusive national reconciliation, leading to gradual political and socio-economic reforms based on dialogue and tolerance. like many in europe, we have been concerned by the death penalty sentence imposed on mr mohammed ramadan and mr husain ali moosa for their alleged involvement in the february 2014 bomb explosion which killed a police officer, a sentence upheld by the bahraini court of cassation on 16 november 2015. the eu is unreservedly opposed to the use of capital punishment under all circumstances, and its universal abolition will continue to remain a cornerstone of the eu’s foreign policy. allegations regarding their possible mistreatment in detention, as well as the basis for their conditions, should also be fully investigated. the eu, both in brussels and through its delegation in riyadh, accredited to bahrain, will continue to liaise with the bahraini authorities to advocate the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as per bahrain’s international commitments, the recommendations set out by the bahraini independent commission of inquiry and the recommendations made during bahrain’s universal periodic review process. the eu will continue to call on the bahraini government to act proportionately in all cases to protect the rights of individuals indicted as a result of criminal charges, as was done during the second visit of the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, in may 2015. on this occasion, the eu conveyed again its preoccupation as to the imposition of the death penalty, recalling its principled opposition to this inhumane and degrading punishment. the eu, in close coordination with the eu member states represented in manama, has been closely following developments related to these individual cases and to the overall human rights situation in the kingdom of bahrain. the european union has expressed formally on many occasions that violence is not justified in any circumstances. the eu has also constantly called for transparent and due process and for the proper investigation of all alleged cases of ill-treatment and of torture. bahraini human rights institutions should effectively tackle these matters in a transparent way, while the robust recommendations stemming from the national human rights institution should be implemented in the interest of all the citizens. in this regard, the many steps taken by the bahraini authorities to implement the recommendations of the bahraini independent commission of inquiry are positive and have the potential to improve the human rights situation in the country, but more is needed. the ministry of the interior’s ombudsman, the prisoners and detainees rights commission and the national institution for human rights have an important and pro-active role to play by fulfilling their mandate in full independence and transparency. let me once again assure you that we will continue to remain seized with the case of mr mohammed ramadan and mr husain ali moosa, and to voice the eu’s concern through appropriate channels.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the case of the missing book publishers in hong kong (2016/2558(rsp)).
i apologise, but we are not taking blue cards because we are a bit tied to the time.
madam president, i wish to join the debate that is taking place here and to support the motion for a resolution as proposed by the drafters. i think there's two lines to the story. the first one was clearly mentioned here, namely the fate of the five booksellers who mysteriously disappeared, and we should, including the commission representatives, press china to explain whether it had a so-called hand in this disappearance and what happened to these people. that's one story. but the other, which i think is equally important, is how the communication between china and hong kong is going and whether the principle of one country, two systems is being upheld or not. and this particular story of five people shows that the two-state system is not being maintained and that china is trying to crack down on the rule of law in hong kong. we should support hong kong students, hong kong opposition in the fight for further democratization in hong kong, in the fight for better voting rights. it's our duty.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, continuing lack of precise information about the well-being of five hong kong residents associated with the publishing house mighty current is extremely worrying. two of them are eu citizens: gui minhai is a swedish national and lee bo is a british national. gui minhai was reported missing in thailand in mid-october. as the hong kong chief executive has stated, it would be a violation of the basic law if mainland law enforcement agencies have indeed been operating in hong kong. this would be inconsistent with the ‘one country, two systems’ principle. respect for freedom of expression underpins all free societies. the relevant authorities in china, hong kong and thailand should investigate and clarify the circumstances of the disappearances in conformity with the rule of law. a statement by the spokesperson of high representative mogherini on the disappearance of individuals associated with the mighty current publishing house in hong kong was released on 7 january. we are in contact with the hong kong authorities and are working closely with the uk, sweden and the head of the eu mission in hong kong on this matter. we have also requested further clarifications from the chinese authorities in beijing. at the moment there has been no clear, reliable answer from the chinese authorities to the request for information from the hong kong government and sweden and the uk on this issue. we will continue to call upon the chinese authorities to clarify the status of all persons associated with the mighty current hong kong publishing house and to grant consular access to eu citizens concerned.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
mr president, the negotiators of the various political groups have agreed to ask for this vote to be postponed until the next mini-plenary. thank you for accepting it.
in writing. ‒ serbia is the 33rd state to participate in the european union's civil protection mechanism, and is one of the countries aspiring to become eu members. serbia has made significant progress on the european integration process, making considerable efforts to align itself with the principles and values to which the union subscribes. serbia has therefore taken significant steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, which resulted in the first agreement on the principles applicable to the normalisation of relations. it has also made substantial efforts to develop the business environment, reduce the budget deficit and develop the labour market, including in terms of labour law and employment policy. furthermore, it drew up the plan for the reconstruction, improvement and modernisation of some sections of the railway network. i welcome the progress made by serbia and the reforms initiated in key areas such as public administration, infrastructure, the economy, which is why i voted in favour of this report. i continue to encourage these european integration efforts and support serbia's efforts to align with the union's foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ i believe we need to be aware that a lot of work lies ahead for serbia: improvements are very much needed with regards to rights, freedoms and the security of minorities, the freedom of the media , the lack of transparency in funding of political parties, the equal representation of men and women. i believe that, in our talks with serbia, we must keep our european priorities and values clear in our minds: the goal of achieving stability in the region is important but we cannot forfeit our support and defence of the exercise of democratic liberties in the balkans. i expect the serbian government to refrain from anti eu rhetoric and to stop manipulating public opinion through pressure, censure and the government's massive propaganda machine. i support this process but at the same time i believe that we must take a clear political position. it is about time for us to show that no state that wishes to join the eu can avoid putting fundamental democratic values into place and can show no interest in the values that europe represents.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution because i welcome the steps taken towards serbia’s ascension to the eu. i urge the serbian political leaders to continue with the reforms needed in order to reach eu standards. serbia has also made significant progress regarding economic reforms – partly due to the commission’s support. i hope serbia will remain strong on its current path.
in writing. i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the 2015 report on serbia. since last year, serbia has taken concrete steps to complete a good part of the community acquis. the commission has put forward a clear set of requirements to serbia regarding the need to strengthen economic governance, the rule of law and the capacity of the public administration. serbia has demonstrated that it can be a socioeconomic driver in the western balkans: it has reduced the budget deficit, improved employment policy and the investment climate. negotiations on the judiciary, fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security remain open. serbia should take further measures to implement the legal framework for the protection of minorities, in particular in the field of education, religion and culture. it is important to clarify the legal status of the national councils of minorities. all minorities must be represented in the serbian parliament in order to increase the effective involvement of minority representatives in the decision-making process. serbia shall grant access to national minorities in public administration and representative bodies at local, regional and national level, and shall respect and vigorously promote their non-discriminatory treatment. i hope that the romanian minority will enjoy in the near future this process of serbia's legal alignment with european standards.
in writing. ‒ in 2015 the report on serbia notes its efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the conditionality of the stabilisation and association process towards european integration. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that welcomes the opening of negotiations on financial control at the intergovernmental conference that took place in brussels on the 14th of december 2015. this new report highlights serbia’s progress and areas that need improving on the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, energy, the environment and transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2015 progress report on serbia. serbia, as a contracting party to the energy community, should remain active within the energy community institutions and continue to implement the acquis in order to build sustainable and secure energy systems. the authorities should start to implement the targets set in the energy sector development strategy, as there is no significant investment in the renewable energy sector. we encourage serbia to develop competition in the natural gas market and to take measures to improve alignment with the acquis in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency. the commission should play a stronger role in supporting the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on energy imports and diversify serbia's gas supply. we draw attention to the ipa ii 2015 package which includes a programme of eur 155 million to contribute to the financing of major regional infrastructure projects in the energy and transport sectors in the western balkans. we also encourage serbia to align with the eu's average climate change commitments and the paris agreement of cop 21.
in writing. ‒ the european union is encouraging the european perspective of the countries of the western balkans, a region considered to be fully part of the union's natural enlargement area. in this area, relations with serbia have been moving in a tortuous but steady upward direction. the eu's relations with the serbian state are currently at an excellent level, as demonstrated by the opening of accession negotiations. in the last year, the opening of negotiations on chapter 32, on financial control, and on chapter 35, on the normalisation of relations with kosovo, is to be welcomed. also, despite a rather complicated internal political life, the pro-european attitude of the majority of relevant political forces in serbia is noteworthy. progress has been made in the liberalisation of the eu visa regime for serbian citizens. the 2015 report also highlights a number of persistent domestic problems, such as media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression, and lack of transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns. the report also notes the need to coordinate efforts to improve the situation of the roma minority and the implementation of legislation for the protection of minorities. i consider that the document reflects the situation in serbia and i support its adoption in this form.
in writing. ‒ all these countries from eastern europe have to and will join the european union one day. it is in the interests of europe and of all these countries. i would like to congratulate ms mogherini for the historic agreement that she brokered in august last year between serbia and kosovo, working towards the complete normalisation of relations between belgrade and priština. however, belgrade did not recognise the independence of kosovo, and there are five european union countries that have still not recognised kosovan independence. so this mechanism which we are now implementing is a sui generis mechanism to bring kosovo closer to the european union. probably the commission and the member states will have to find a way for this country to start accession negotiations with the european union without it having been recognised by all member states.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my concerns regarding the low level of processing and investigation of cases of hate speech and discrimination against lgbti and minority communities. i would also like to urge local authorities to make progress regarding the number of missing persons from the war period in order to make steps towards mutual reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ on 27 october 2015 the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was signed. i have abstained on this motion for a resolution due to the fact that five member states (cyprus, greece, romania, slovakia and spain) do not recognise its sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the situation in libya is marked by strong internal conflict, instability and political dissension. this situation has been perceived favourably by various extremist forces, which threaten peace and security throughout the region. one of the most visible terrorist groups is daesh, which has launched major offensives against the extremely important oil facilities in libya. furthermore, the human rights situation continues to deteriorate throughout the country, including cases of arbitrary detention, abductions, extrajudicial executions, torture and violence against journalists, officials, political figures and human rights defenders. at the same time, multiple cases have been reported where smugglers have exploited refugees trying to reach europe. the european union is deeply concerned by the growing presence of extremist organisations and movements in libya. these groups pose a major threat to the stability and security of the entire region and also to the security of europe. the eu must therefore continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political support to enable the humanitarian crisis in libya to be resolved and to respond adequately to the suffering of people and refugees, as well as civilians facing the interruption of access to basic services, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the human rights and humanitarian situation in libya has deteriorated amid escalating violence and an increasingly volatile political environment. libya hosts hundreds of thousands of refugees and asylum seekers of different nationalities, many of whom live in precarious conditions, thus becoming a transit ground for human trafficking, which has led to the deaths of thousands of people trying to cross the mediterranean sea to reach europe. it is important that the libyan political agreement is implemented in good faith, with sustained political will and inclusiveness. its implementation will provide the tools to address the urgent challenges of reforming and building state institutions, strengthening the rule of law, combating terrorism, improving the human rights situation, combating trafficking in human beings and stimulating economic growth. i strongly support the stepping up of humanitarian funding at european and international level to meet the most urgent needs of those who have been severely affected by the conflict in libya, as well as the need to provide funds to humanitarian organisations for better assessment of the situation and improved responses to needs on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i believe we must support the government of national accord and fully back the mediation efforts of the special representative of the unsg aimed at facilitating a libyan-led political solution in finding a negotiated settlement to resolve the crisis and to ensure unity, governability, stability and peace. i therefore welcome the signature of the libyan political agreement (lpa) to form a government of national accord (gna), as the sole legitimate government of libya. i invite the house of representatives and its presidency to show a spirit of compromise and convene and discuss proposed cabinet with a view of an endorsement of the government of national accord. it is crucial the libyan political agreement be implemented with inclusiveness; this will provide the necessary tool to address the urgent challenges of reforming and building state institutions, consolidating the rule of law, fighting terrorism, improving the human rights situation and the phenomenon of migrations, combating human smugglers as well as of stimulating economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the commission and eeas – as coordinators of member states in libya – to focus on state-building and institution-building. furthermore, progress in terms economy is central to a libyan democratic transition. however, the proxy war and the presence of daesh in the region have slowed down considerably both the progress made by the economy and a clean transition to democracy.
in writing. ‒ libya has been plagued by instability, infighting and sectarianism since the fall of colonel muammar gaddafi in 2011. the lack of a stable government has been exploited by is/daesh and other extremist forces that threaten peace and security in the entire region. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on libya’s un-led talks parties to work together in order to achieve national unity, stability and inclusivity.
in writing. ‒ the civil conflict in libya that has been going on for several years has generated a number of negative effects for the european union, such as increased migration, illegal trafficking in human beings and the spread of terrorism. the signing of the libyan political agreement is an important step towards normalizing the situation and bringing the various legitimate sides in the conflict to the negotiating table. the formation of a government of national accord in the following period would guarantee respect for the interests of the various libyan political groups. it is therefore very important that the libyan presidency and house of representatives support this initiative. the european union, through the high representative for foreign affairs and the vice-president of the commission, is working with the libyan authorities and the un structures to develop a coordinated package of measures to support the new libyan government. however, additional humanitarian funding is needed to rebuild the country and restore normalcy to its citizens. in this regard, the union's member states should support those measures, provided that the new government in tripoli takes measures to reform state institutions, strengthen the rule of law, combat terrorism (including isis activity in libya), respect human rights, combat trafficking in human beings and control migration. i support the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ european islands are distinctive in terms of their environmental conditions, with endemic habitats and species, but also in terms of their cultural aspects, with their architectural heritage, sites, landscapes, agricultural and non-agricultural characteristics and outstanding geographical identities. european islands have a significant role to play in strengthening sustainable development in the union, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources, due to their specific exposure to wind, tidal and sunlight. however, some of the union's islands also fall within peripheral regions and are vulnerable to various challenges facing europe such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially in the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows. as a result, more efficient connectivity via maritime routes, better access to ports and better air transport services are required. i believe it is particularly important to promote the accessibility of regions and links between islands so that these island areas become tourist hotspots and points of increased interest. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a strategic approach is needed to the sustainable development of european island regions by promoting innovation and competitiveness in these regions.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the permanent handicaps of island regions, due to their small size and distance from the european continental coast, which constitute obstacles to the physical development of islands and prevent them from achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to set up a homogeneous group of all island territories. in order to carry out studies and analyses on the additional costs generated by the situation of insularity, i believe that other statistical indicators, which can reflect the vulnerability of islands, and not only their gross domestic product, need to be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ island regions have common and specific characteristics and features that clearly distinguish them from mainland regions such, as certain permanent handicaps which require particular attention. this is why i believe it is very important to know which are the specific instruments and the resources of cohesion policy to tackle the handicaps arising from the insularity and how will deal the ec in the future with the permanent handicaps of these regions, as a permanent obstacle which may affect the achievement of the objectives of the cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution because i welcome an efficient and effective plan with regards to insular regions. studies must be made in order to determine the levels of energy supplies, transport, access to markets, and even the impact of the 2015 refugee wave.
in writing. ‒ european islands are peripheral regions situated on the eu’s external borders that are particularly vulnerable to challenges that europe is facing, such as demographic trends, globalisation, climate change, energy supply and, especially for southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on the commission to provide a clear definition of the type of geographical, natural and demographic handicaps that insular regions suffer from in order to provide targeted support.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has had a dramatic impact on national and regional budgets in many member states by limiting the availability of funding in many sectors, leading to a 20% decline in public investment. the crisis has also seriously damaged the development prospects of many disadvantaged regions, including those on islands, led to increased poverty and social exclusion and hampered the achievement of the union's long-term objective of economic and territorial cohesion. given the high potential of islands for the production of energy from renewable sources due to their specific exposure to wind, tidal and sunlight, european islands can become important sources of alternative energy. the islands can contribute to strengthening sustainable development in the union, guaranteeing their energy autonomy and energy at prices more accessible to the inhabitants. a key means of countering the connectivity disadvantages of island regions is digital capacity. i would stress that investment in infrastructure is needed to ensure broadband access in islands and their full participation in the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ islands are specific geographical regions which face a number of permanent natural handicaps compared to mainland areas. these generate economic, social and environmental disparities for island areas, making access for tourists and economic operators more difficult. the islands are also particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe today, including migration flows, demographic trends (depopulation), climate change, energy supply. at the same time, these regions have great potential for wind, solar and wave energy, as well as for tourism, in addition to the traditional sectors of agriculture, livestock and fisheries. in this context, in line with the union's objective of reducing regional disparities, the commission is invited, through this motion for a resolution, to take the necessary measures to support the balanced development of the regions concerned, in particular by supporting intermodal transport, investments in digital infrastructure, investments in education, the creation of an 'islands office' within dg regio and the development of coherent development strategies for island areas, involving local, regional and national authorities, as well as other relevant actors from civil society, the economy and the social environment. i think it's a necessary initiative and i support its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the role of local and regional authorities and a wide range of partners - from member states to community groups - is essential in the process of developing and implementing european union strategies. on the other hand, the diversity of governance at local and regional level is an asset for the european union and i consider the principle of enhanced partnership and the european code of conduct on partnership to be very important. they shall establish the legal involvement of local and regional authorities and lay down the minimum requirements for their involvement in all stages of the preparation and implementation of operational programmes in order to achieve the highest possible absorption rate of esi funds.
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities play a very important role within the framework of the european structural and investment funds as they are close to citizens and best understand their needs. on the other hand - due to their limited means - they are in need of budgetary support for co-financement of projects. it is important to know how the ec is going to support regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs. furthermore, we also need to know if the ec envisage a public consultation, followed by an initiative, on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the eu cohesion policy between 2014 and 2020 continues to serve as the main investment instrument that covers all regions of the eu, creating sustainable growth, supporting the creation of jobs, entrepreneurship and innovation at local and regional economies level. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that reiterates the key role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategies.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy for 2014-2020 is the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and an opportunity for job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and ensuring solidarity and stronger development in eu regions. i voted for synergies and complementarity between the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and other eu programmes, where local and regional authorities can play a useful role in achieving cohesion policy objectives. we stress that any reprogramming of the esi funds should be carried out in accordance with the rules of the common provisions regulation (cpr) and that new initiatives should not weaken the substance of the esi funds. we draw attention to the challenges faced by local and regional authorities, such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increasing urbanisation, taking into account that each region has specific needs and characteristics. we invite the commission to continue to build on past and ongoing initiatives, including public consultations, to identify measures to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the management and implementation of the esi funds through partnership agreements and operational programmes.
in writing. ‒ yemen is facing a critical situation characterised by conflict, tribal tensions, and heavy violence with a significant humanitarian impact on the civilian population, especially children. the current violence stems from the failure of government structures to meet the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, generating discontent and dividing society. the situation in yemen is thus characterised by severe instability, a regrettable humanitarian crisis exacerbated by constant bombardment and conflict. the situation in yemen must therefore be stabilised, security strengthened, and functioning government structures put in place to make a consistent effort to combat extremism and violence in the region. i believe that in this situation, all parties must respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law and urgently work with un and humanitarian aid organisations to provide assistance to those in need. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that immediate action is needed to resolve the humanitarian crisis in yemen and to restore stability and peace to the territory.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis in yemen is the result of a failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. according to the 2016 humanitarian overview released in november 2015, 21.2 million people (82% of the population) are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. currently, there are estimated to be about 2.1 million undernourished people, of which more than 1.3 million are children suffering from severe acute malnutrition. i am deeply concerned about the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen, which is characterised by widespread food insecurity and severe malnutrition, attacks against civilians and medical workers, and the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure. coordinated humanitarian action under the un leadership is needed, and all countries must contribute to meeting humanitarian needs. it is important to allow the entry and delivery of urgently needed food, medical supplies and fuel to meet the urgent needs of civilians affected by the crisis, in accordance with the principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen is extremely worrisome, since the delivery of assistance has been impacted by continued fighting. conflict combined with poverty, forced displacement and rising food prices have aggravated an already serious humanitarian crisis during the last year. i welcome the fact that the european commission responded to the dramatic deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen with an additional €15 million in emergency funding in december. this assistance will prioritize life-saving assistance in the sectors of health, wash, nutrition and food security, which have been particularly affected by the conflict and the collapse of government services parties to the conflict have to abide by international humanitarian law and to ensure protection of civilians by refraining from direct and indiscriminate targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure. especially, the bombing of civilians and hospitals has to be avoided by all means and represents a violation of international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the proxy war that is taking place in yemen. the conflict has created a huge humanitarian crisis in terms of the displacement of men, women and children, and even loss of life. iran and saudi arabia must come to terms and end the fighting. if this conflict continues, it will give great opportunity for terrorist groups to exploit the current crisis which would not only affect yemen, but also have ramifications in the region.
in writing. ‒ the arab spring has marked a rise in hope for the democratization of societies in the middle east. sadly, in some cases, social unrest has degenerated into violent internal conflicts, which have greatly affected civilian populations and undermined the viability of states. there is also the case of yemen, where the confrontation has deepened old religious and political divisions. the fragility of the yemeni state has also been exploited by the terrorist organisation al-qaeda, which controls a significant part of its territory. the involvement of external actors in the internal conflict was not designed to de-escalate the situation, but rather led to a battle of attrition between saudi-backed government forces and iranian-backed rebel forces (houthis). this struggle has generated a dramatic humanitarian situation characterised by an exponential increase in the number of refugees, chronic poverty, destruction of civilian objects (including blind and deaf centres, schools and economic objectives) and proliferation of armaments. in this situation, the european parliament must take a firm stand against the continuation of this regrettable state of affairs and encourage the involvement of relevant international actors in the settlement of the conflict. the european union, through the council and the external action service, can be directly involved in limiting arms sales and encouraging a ceasefire.
in writing. ‒ genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, regardless of the place and time in which they are committed, must not go unpunished, and it is a matter of concern for the union's structures to combat these acts. in the last few years, 66 churches have been attacked or blown up in the systematic bombing campaign against christian churches in iraq. also, a worrying result of the systematic mass execution of members of religious minorities by isis translates into significantly lower numbers of christians in syria and iraq. for example, in iraq, there was a drop from 1 400 000 in 2003 to around 300 000 and in syria from 1.25 million in 2011 to only 500 000 today. as a result, current extremism and persecution of christians is an increasingly significant factor in the development of mass migration and internal displacement. the inalienable right of all religious and ethnic minorities living in iraq and syria to live in equality and security and to practice their religion fully and freely must be recognised, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the violent extremist ideology perpetuated by isis/daesh, terrorist acts, systematic attacks against civilians, abuses of human rights and international humanitarian law, including those on religious or ethnic grounds, eradication of cultural heritage and trafficking in cultural goods, constitute a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security. persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities who oppose isis/daesh and other terrorist groups, militias and non-state armed groups in areas under their de facto control continue to be at risk of persecution. the international community, including the eu and its member states, must ensure that ethnic and religious minorities who have been forced to leave or have been forcibly displaced have the necessary security conditions and prospects to return to their countries as soon as possible. the international community must provide military protection and assistance to particularly vulnerable groups targeted by isis/daesh and other terrorist organisations in the middle east, such as ethnic and religious minorities, and the participation of these groups in finding sustainable political solutions. all parties to the conflict must respect universal human rights to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid and assistance through all possible channels.
in writing. ‒ indiscriminate killings and massive human rights violations, in particular against ethnic and religious minorities, perpetrated by isis on the territories under its control, have to be condemned by all means. we must make any possible effort to avoid that the mass murder continues, and we must coordinate efforts to protect all civilian victims of the conflict, regardless of their ethnicity and religion, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable groups, such as yazidis, who were subjected to a brutal campaign by isil to destroy their community in iraq. there is clear evidence of isis assassinations of church leaders, mass murders, torture and kidnapping in the communities of iraq and syria and the sexual enslavement and systematic rape of girls and women. what is happening is genocide, deliberately aimed at destroying ethnic and religious minorities in the middle east in territory controlled by isis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution because i too strongly condemn the activity of the terrorist organization which is called isis or daesh. the actions taken by these terrorists are nothing less than crimes against humanity and war crimes. moreover, what must be recognized in the middle east is the ongoing persecution of religious and ethnic groups that has caused mass displacement and migration. the international community must work together in order to ensure the necessary security conditions for those who have been forced to leave their homeland.
in writing. ‒ the rome statute of the international criminal court that was signed and ratified by all eu member states declares that crimes against humanity and war crimes represent the greatest concern of the international community as a whole. such actions must not go unpunished. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that condemns the isis faction and its deplorable human rights abuses and urges syria and iraq to accept the jurisdiction of the international criminal court.
in writing. ‒ the rise of the islamic state in syria and iraq (isis) is one of the major challenges facing contemporary society. the violence and inhumanity of the methods used by the militants of this terrorist group have long exceeded any limits imaginable in a civilized world. beyond the issues of international action to counter this scourge of terrorism, the deplorable actions that isis militants are taking against minority groups that do not share their fundamentalist and extremist religious values cannot be ignored. this category may include, in addition to christian minorities, shiite, alawite, sufi, secular or non-salafi muslim minorities, the yazidi minority, women and sexual minorities. the group has been subjected to brutal treatment by isis militants, who have subjected them to repression through persecution, denial of fundamental rights, indirect attacks, and even physical harm and murder. in these circumstances, the european union, as the protector of the civilized world, has a moral duty to criminalize these acts as crimes against humanity. isis and its members must be held accountable for the atrocities committed against them by a special international tribunal set up for this purpose. we have a duty as representatives of european citizens living in free societies to support this resolution.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for putting on the agenda of this plenary session a debate on the role of public services in improving rail connectivity in the danube and adriatic-ionian regions. at the beginning of last week, i had the opportunity to attend the launch event of the european union strategy for the alpine region, which took place in brdo, slovenia. this was the launch of the 4th macro-regional strategy and the enthusiastic response of the over 500 participants once again attests to the need and importance of these macro-regional strategies. by engaging in macro-regional strategies, european regions can jointly address common challenges, thus contributing to territorial, economic and social cohesion. this cooperation is particularly relevant for improving connectivity between regions, in particular through the development of railway connections. both the danube and the adriatic-ionian strategy have identified rail transport as one of their main priorities. there are indeed enormous gaps between their regions in public rail services, which undermine the common potential for economic development. for example, in what we call the 'old member states', such as italy, germany and austria, public services are generally satisfactory, although there is clearly room for improvement. in the new member states, such as the czech republic, hungary and romania, the situation is not satisfactory but is improving, mainly thanks to the support provided by european funds. in contrast, in countries outside the european union, public rail services are truly inadequate and in dire need of reform and investment. in this context, the european commission believes that it is time to take energetic measures to support public rail services in these regions. actions should focus on the following: first, we certainly need closer and better cooperation between countries. there is no other way to succeed, at the micro- and macro-regional level. second, we need the participating countries to work closely together to implement a series of railway reforms, such as the separation of infrastructure and operations, and the introduction of licences and regulations. third, we need to invest in rehabilitation projects, removing bottlenecks and missing links in traffic management systems and improving capacity. in this respect, i am pleased to say that the ten-t indicative value for the western balkans currently in force provides a useful framework for these investments. but, distinguished members of the european parliament, we all know that only through cooperation, reforms and railway investment will we be able to overcome the current challenges. we must also work to improve project preparation, create and strengthen effective governance structures and align and simplify border crossing procedures. in particular, we need all parties involved to agree on a very clear principle: all public service contracts, rail transport, must be awarded on the basis of competitiveness criteria. public resources are under severe constraints and we therefore need to ensure that the available resources are used as efficiently as possible. three years ago, the commission put forward a legislative proposal as part of the 4th railway package and we are confident that together with you, as fellow legislators, we will reach an agreement on this proposal. as i mentioned, we have made great progress in developing macro-regional strategies. it is now time to translate these principles into concrete actions and changes that respond to the needs and expectations of both the private sector and the citizens in these regions. this means, in concrete terms, better, more efficient public rail services. thank you and i look forward to your contributions.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, macro-regions are a positive initiative because they can bring coordination and cohesion between the various regions within those macro-regions. but i think we have to be careful here that the money is not somehow distributed to the macro-regions in the future, because then cohesion policy, which is already having some problems at the moment, may have even more problems. i believe that coordination is needed at the commission level, at european level, so that the member states in the macro-region agree and direct the money from the structural funds towards coherent projects, which are carried out in several countries. as regards the danube and the balkans, i think the commission's initiative to extend the ten-t network to the balkans is very good. i believe that attention must continue to be paid, particularly as regards the railway, to the construction of corridors, that is to say, to projects to build those corridors, in particular to the black sea ports, constanta and the ports of greece. and that's where i think you can intervene, because you can coordinate national transportation plans so that some corridors are completed. i would also ask you to follow closely the completion of the railway package, because it is very important in this respect, and also the return of the money that we have distributed to the efsi back to the esc, because there can be railway projects.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner corina crețu, i am pleased to have such an important debate today for the economic development of romania, but also of central and eastern europe. as you know, romania and austria were the first to put this to the council and subsequently asked the commission to prepare a strategy for the danube region by the end of 2010. the strategy of this macro-region of fourteen eu member states aims to address the common challenges of these countries, namely the need for increased mobility, energy sources and energy efficiency in the region, water quality and socio-economic development. unfortunately, as common as the set of challenges is, so different and unequal is this economic development in the macro-region. tools are therefore needed to enhance and increase social, economic and, above all, territorial cohesion. this includes romania's general transport master plan, a master plan that is a prerequisite for european funding and a strategic instrument in terms of the major development objectives of the national transport system, as well as the investment needs corresponding to projects and investments in infrastructure. this master plan was adopted by political consensus by the romanian government and subsequently approved by the european commission following negotiations. the railway infrastructure projects are prioritised in line with the union transport policy objectives of creating a single european transport area. that is why, commissioner, i am pleased to see that there is coherence between regional development policy and rail transport policy in the danube macro-region. in cohesion countries, such as romania, this logic will contribute to socioeconomic and territorial development, but also to reducing existing gaps and discrepancies that unfortunately still persist between the member states of the region.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr cramer, i remember that in june we had a discussion and a meeting in the transport and tourism committee of the european parliament. i would remind you that at that meeting, both representatives of the romanian government and representatives of the european commission from dg move and dg regio, together with myself, made it very clear to you that it was not a question of cutting the railway infrastructure in romania by 30-40%, but, on the contrary, it was a question of optimising that network. you still haven't answered my question. i told you that romania has one of the largest rail transport networks in europe and i told you, at the time, that countries like france and germany have cut much more from the rail network in the last ten years than romania has cut. i have always been in favour of rail transport and for transport and a single european transport system that is sustainable and sustainable, as it is infrastructure-based. but please do not come with misinformation to the european parliament.
mr president, romania is a solid partner in the development of the european rail network and regulations, with its extensive railway network, its increased demand for mobility and its important potential, given its strategic role in the whole eu transport policy, mainly in south-eastern europe. without any doubt, the rail sector in romania faces a number of challenges and requires prompt and thorough reform. i believe that romania’s general transport master plan makes a significant effort in the sense of allocating up to eur 14 billion for the next year to rail infrastructure investments, mostly to the rehabilitation and upgrading of around 4 000 km of railway lines. the reduction of approximately 30% of the network that is stipulated in the plan has been identified ever since 1990 by the ebrd and the world bank, and now it represents only 2% of freight traffic and 8% of passenger traffic. maintaining the whole existing rail network to eu standards would indeed be unaffordable, and the reduction will optimise efficiency and decrease operational costs. also, this network has to be preserved because the future is railway transportation – and everybody mentioned this. we need to keep in mind that in the current situation of the romanian rail network the efforts to maintain and upgrade it will absorb all necessary funds, despite the fact that romania increased public funding for transport infrastructure for 2014-2020 to a yearly average of 2% from the previous 1.15%. let me point out as well that romania will not give up the rail infrastructure upgraded or rebuilt with eu cofinancing, emphasising once again the fact, that compared to the european average, the same number of passengers could, theoretically speaking, be transported by using a 20-30% smaller network. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– we have to respond to our dear colleague mr cramer: we are really waiting for european union incentives to member states like romania to use the railway network more instead of the roads.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important subject, not for a conference, but for a debate from which we can draw conclusions. from my point of view, it's a shame that we put it on thursday and at such an hour. the transport development strategy, the european strategy, the danube and adriatic strategy that we are discussing today are extremely important and, commissioner, you have made it very clear that we have countries, including the czech republic, hungary and romania, where the quality of transport is questionable. you simply called it unsatisfactory. i totally agree. however, among the three points you have presented as important for improving intermodality, you have put investment. my question is: can you convince mr juncker that we should also give money from the fund for strategic investments to areas which have this deficiency, this backlog in the quality of infrastructure? because i don't believe in a single market, i don't believe in growth. transportation also means cost and pollution, cost to business people. of course, i agree with mr cramer, because road transport not only pollutes, but we also have road accidents and loss of life. so i think it's necessary to take the money to the areas that have this backlog, for the development of the railway infrastructure.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, i have to recognise that i am not a specialist on this subject. because there were not many volunteers, i accepted to speak because my younger daughter is taking care of two cats and one dog, of course altogether with the whole family, and we love them very much. first of all i would to say to our colleagues, ms zimmer, mr gericke and ms hazekamp, that progress has been made recently in romania. you should look at recent data regarding the protection of animals. at the same time, the response has to be a european union one, a standardised eu system to protect pets. i support the introduction of a new passport model which stipulates that cats, dogs and ferrets can travel with their owners within the european union if they have a passport that contains proof of their identity and their anti-rabies vaccination, all of which must comply with specific conditions. eu countries must provide the public with clear and easily-accessible information concerning the requirements applicable to the non—commercial movement of pets and the rules for compliance checks on such movement. i support the call for an eu—wide database for pet registration and i welcome the fact that the commission has agreed to carry out a study on the welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices.
mr president, i would like to inform the house on a matter pertaining to freedom of expression in romania. two years ago, the owner of the intact media group – five tv stations, two radio stations and two newspapers – was sentenced to ten years in prison. consequently his assets, including the premises of the intact media group, have been confiscated and legally registered as state property. some days ago, in a clear show of force, the tax authorities descended on the premises of the intact media group to hand over an eviction notice in a completely unrealistic period of five days. for your information, the intact media group has not been part of the trial – it is not in debt to the state – and was ignored when it tried to do that. i consider this unacceptable.
i inform you that i am sticking to the precedent created by president schulz and will accept only one blue card per speaker. i would therefore ask the indulgence of those of you who have asked for blue cards.
fortunately we live in the real world.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, madam president, i agree with you that britain must remain in the european union, and i understand that you agree with me. i would like to ask you the following question: do you think that, after the concessions made for a limited time by the british council - and let us hope that the answer is yes - the purpose and meaning of the european union, namely the single market, equal rights and free movement, will be able to be respected?
before asking you whether you accept a blue card from mr jakovčić, i have to announce that we will ask our colleague ms guillaume to take the floor and then we will listen to president tusk because he has to leave. we will then continue our discussion. so this is the scenario.
madam president, it is evident that far from being the far-sighted reform of the working of the eu that it was intended to be, or a diplomatic victory, the agreement reached at the european council last weekend on the avoidance of brexit is rather a deal to satisfy – and, i would add, exaggerate – the concerns of a single member state. of course the concessions that proportionately affect the new member states were worth making, and both the european union and britain are better off with the latter in the union than outside. it is not european nation states by themselves that are able to address the economic, financial and security challenges of the globalised world, but a stronger, more united and more efficient union. however, we should be extremely cautious that this settlement does not open the back door for special requests from other countries for their short-term or long-term existing or perceived problems.
in writing. investing in people, starting from the first years of schooling, can and must contribute to reducing inequalities and strengthening social inclusion from an early age. i believe that it is beneficial for the eu to have forms of cooperation between governments, businesses, including social enterprises, educational institutions, personalised services, civil society and social partners to adapt the education and training systems of the member states to meet the needs of the labour market. education can and must provide the most appropriate tools for citizens to access the labour market for all in europe, which is why europe needs a broader investment strategy covering the whole cycle of education and training, covering all areas of lifelong learning, formal and non-formal training and learning at work. on the other hand, there is a need to expand forms of labour force training, including adult and vocational training opportunities, with a focus on training those who have taken a break from work to raise children, with the aim of better aligning education systems to labour market needs.
in writing. the external borders must be secured and defended. member states must comply with the requirements of the schengen code. whoever is in trouble must be supported, willingly or unwillingly, by the european entities: frontex, for example, and, i hope, very soon, the european border guard. the schengen area must be defended at all costs. avoiding loss of life and reducing the flow of refugees cannot be achieved without stopping conflicts in the countries of origin and stopping people in the areas of departure. turkey and the north african states need support. the amounts decided must produce tangible results. the relocation procedure for the 160 000 refugees is very difficult to implement because it is based on the principle of the refugee's choice with regard to the host member state. the european agenda on migration will not be successful as long as the procedure does not provide for appropriate measures by which member states that initially took in refugees retain refugees in their responsibility. the review of the asylum system must be carried out in such a way that it is possible and immediate to apply it in the territory.
in writing. last friday was a sad day for europe, for the construction of europe, for those who dedicated their lives to creating the union and believed in a strong europe. on friday, the heads of state and government decided to give in to british blackmail, accepting more sovereignty and less europe. although the council says the signed agreement is legally binding, there are many unknowns in the equation. an agreement signed by heads of state or government can only be binding and enforceable by treaty amendment or secondary legislation. i'm afraid a dangerous precedent has been set. i will never accept that a worker from my country working in the uk is treated as a second-class citizen. i will be involved when the commission's proposals reach parliament's table to ensure that fundamental rights are respected. i believe that this two-speed europe that we continue to promote is not the europe that robert schuman and jacques delors dreamed of, and if some have forgotten the main purpose for which the union was created, it is worth reminding them that peace is more precious than anything and that we are stronger together.
in writing. overall, the agreement negotiated with the uk may be a good deal for the eu as a whole, giving it a chance to remain a member state of the eu. for romania and other less economically developed member states, this agreement contains some deeply unfair provisions. it is hard to accept that in the european union, a romanian citizen who will go to work in the united kingdom does not benefit from the same financial rights for children remaining in romania, as a british citizen. for romanian citizens already working in the uk, this unfair decision will apply later. that is why i will vote for the agreement with the uk, but not for the amendment of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 which would allow the uk to treat romanian citizens working in the uk as second class citizens in terms of the financial rights of children, wherever they are.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have tabled amendments to these reports. they are not perfect, but i think that there are things here that are very well formulated and that can really lead to single market governance and that will achieve its goal in the end. the quality of this governance matters a lot and we will really get to an attractive european union and we will obviously also have concrete results in terms of job growth, social cohesion and improving the quality of life. there is a need for cross-border development and this is captured in the report, the development of jobs in poor areas. the development of common policies in the field of competitiveness is needed and there is an amendment on the network of national competitiveness councils. it must play a greater role in the common competitiveness policies. public procurement and the public sector are important vectors but, commissioner, honourable members of the council, there needs to be more transparency and more ethical competition. smes need to be in the government's sights and i think the report is worth voting on.
in writing.– the european semester should be a moment of reflexion on what does not work in the european union and what we have to pursue in the coming period to resolve it. we see a europe that is having difficulties recovering from the crisis. the slow economic growth is still affecting employment, and the lack of investment is affecting the entrepreneurial potential in a lot of european countries. europe is even more unequal than ever before, the future of young europeans is affected for ever, and no solutions seem to be found. the promised leverage mechanism of the european fund for strategic investment is not there. with only a five-point multiplication effect we are far from the target. europe needs a new hope, a new dynamism. we are acting as fixers, not as solution makers, we are not doing prevention at all and we are incapable of delivering quality results. our solution, as social democrats, is to start reconnecting with our citizens, with our smes, with our town/villages, to find there the resources that can make europe great again. we have the strength, we simply need the will.
in writing. europe has not yet emerged from the economic crisis, and the current disastrous situation is due both to the crisis and to past decisions at eu level. they did not provide a sufficient degree of economic protection of the common market. the key to economic recovery is the internal market, and the demand for this market exists and is large enough, only we europeans are not the ones to meet this demand. products from all the continents of the world are imported into the european area and, in parallel, all the european states are depleting their own monetary reserves by paying for these purchases, of course, to the detriment of community production. let's not forget those industries in european countries that no longer exist and that have disappeared as a result of a hostile economic environment in europe. the key phrase for intra-community economic growth is protection, namely european economic protection. such protection must first ensure the conservation of the resources and values which the union still possesses and, as a secondary objective, ensure those economic and social policy mixtures which give member states sufficient sovereignty to be able to defend themselves against economic or social threats.
in writing. the european union is now in its third year of economic recovery, with a decline in the unemployment rate, but not significant enough to limit poverty and unemployment, given that 23 million europeans, representing 9.9% of the active population, are still out of work. the economic growth forecast in the european union for 2016 is 2%, but this remains uneven across member states. in this regard, a strategy is needed to ensure sustainable growth, especially in the context of economic and financial turbulence in some emerging economies, which is leading to new strategic challenges for the european union. moreover, a large number of member states are facing structural problems. it is therefore necessary to continue to attach importance to public and private investment and to socially and economically balanced reforms. in addition, member states need to increase the coverage and effectiveness of active labour market policies. i would also like to stress the need to pay greater attention to the eu's peripheral regions, especially the least developed ones, in order to reduce disparities and strengthen cohesion at european level.
reporting for the opinion of the regi. madam president, every day more than 1.1 million european citizens living in one eu country cross the borders to go to work in a neighbouring country. in this context, the eures portal on labour mobility is a unique opportunity for jobseekers. the european parliament supports an update of the functioning of eures and its harmonisation with the evolution of society at european level. i believe that national and cross-border structures need to have sufficient staff and resources to carry out their work, including staff training programmes. at the same time, this reform should enable public employment services to lay the foundations for closer cooperation with education and training bodies, in particular in the area of continuing training, including for people over 40 years of age, to enable the development of skills and the intelligent use of information and communication technologies.
in writing. there is a fundamental difference between the basic principle of freedom to work anywhere in the eu and the reality in which this principle operates. the european union is increasingly fragmented, threatened both from within and without by factors that are already creating significant obstacles to genuine mobility. the figures show that, with 4 million monthly visits, the main portal for labour mobility, eures, generates some 50 000 jobs a year. we have to recognise that the main flow of labour mobility in the eu is from east to west. since 2005, the number of europeans working in a country other than their own has increased by 60%, mainly as a result of eu enlargement. i support the renewal of the eures portal, i support making mobility more efficient, but i want to draw attention to the clear need to deal realistically with the phenomenon of internal migration in the eu. most migrants do not use official channels to get to and work in another country, may not have access to the internet, may not even have heard of eures. these are the people who need the eu's support and protection the most.
mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent report, which i share and fully support. tunisia's progress towards pluralism and democracy is a source of inspiration, hope and respect for all of us. tunisia is facing enormous economic, social and security challenges today. therefore it is fundamental and urgent that we help this country beyond our flamboyant speeches, now, at this moment, as i promised and, unfortunately, have done so little. proposal to the commission for the introduction of an autonomous emergency trade measure for tunisia as part of this emergency aid package. therefore, i ask all my colleagues to support the text of this report as proposed by the rapporteur and, above all, to avoid trialogue, which is of a nature not to exclude any graphic relating to tunisia. this is an essential measure for the crisis-stricken tunisian economy, and olive oil remains tunisia's main export product.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 february 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on preparation for the un general assembly special session on drugs (2016/2561(rsp)).
member of the commission.– madam president, there is indeed a very wide agenda to discuss under this headline in new york later this spring. most of the issues you refer to are actually on the agenda, and the eu will be pursuing it: everything – smuggling, online, new substances – i think the emcdda is identifying at least one new substance a week, so this is really an acute problem – but also, of course, the issues of treatment, prevention, rehabilitation and so on. to the honourable lady from italy on decriminalisation: different countries have chosen different paths, so this issue in itself is not on the agenda. but we will, of course, listen to the different experiences from those countries and take heed of the results and the possible impact, even if it is quite early to evaluate results – for instance, the countries you mentioned. so there is a lot to discuss, and i will make sure that the european parliament is involved in the further preparation but also on the follow-up of this, and we will convey your message to commissioner avramopoulos, who will be representing the eu there. so we are sparing no efforts to make sure that the eu is constructively and actively contributing to the ungass meeting and that we can help to contribute to bring solutions to this gigantic global problem, also paving the way for the review of the united nation political declaration and plan of action on drugs, which is foreseen in 2019.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, as was just stated by the commissioner, most of the issues referred to are on the agenda. so yes, we will do our utmost to ensure that ungass follows the direction that the eu has been following already for a number of years and that this leads to a strong health and human rights-based approach in drug policies. we will also keep on voicing our opposition to the death penalty for drug—related crimes. applying that penalty for these crimes is neither proportionate nor effective. finally, we will also do our best to bring strong risk- and harm-reduction language into the ungass outcome documents, because we have proved that these measures work. therefore we have no excuse not to use them to protect the health of our citizens.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. the european union plays a key role in the fight against drug trafficking through its examples of good practice and must be one of the key pillars of the un general assembly's special session. beyond the criminal aspect of drug trafficking and use, we must also be aware of the public health problems it entails, with the eu repeatedly committed to protecting the health of its citizens and to combating drug addiction. however, the high death rate and the financial burden on the public health system demonstrate the need for a more comprehensive approach to reducing the supply and demand of drugs. our efforts must be matched by awareness of the dangers of drug trafficking and use by citizens, both for themselves and, above all, for children. having basic medical training, i focus on the danger to citizens' health, and therefore believe that it is necessary to further develop policies to educate citizens, especially young people, in order to reduce the harmful impact of drugs on society.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
my fellow members of parliament! we celebrated the international mother language day on february 21. the celebration of the hungarians in romania was overshadowed by the tacit adoption of an extremely nationalist, anti-hungarian and anti-minority bill in the house of representatives. this law would prohibit the use of minority languages in public administration. the draft law is anti-hungarian, unconstitutional, and has caused outrage in the entire hungarian community, as its provisions are in conflict with the constitution of romania and are contrary to the fundamental values of the european union. i am convinced that the rmdsz will be able to get the senate in bucharest to reject the draft. it is against the interests of a democratic state of law to pass an unconstitutional, exclusionary, extremely nationalist law. this bill, which belongs in the trash, is incompatible with our country's membership of the european union.
madam president, last week, the romanian tax authorities ordered five television stations belonging to the intact trust to evacuate their premises within five days as part of the state's action to recover damages. i think the state's desire to recover damages from the file is right. in the eyes of justice, we are all equal. the court decision was implemented by the taking over of the press trust building by the state and does not provide for the evacuation of antena 3, which is not a party to any trial and has no debt to the state. the correct solution, according to the law, is the right of preemption of the press trust, as a tenant. the request to five television stations to evacuate their premises in such a short time constitutes the cessation of broadcasting and can be interpreted as a move intended to intimidate those media institutions and even to endanger their activity. we can talk about suppressing freedom of speech through administrative means. nowhere in europe can one television station, let alone five, change its headquarters in five days.
madam president, the ability to seek information, to express and defend your views is directly proportional to the degree of independence we manage to ensure for the press and journalists. it is the union's common responsibility to ensure a free and independent environment in which media institutions can operate. my appeal to the commission, and to you, ladies and gentlemen, is to be vigilant and to react firmly and swiftly against any attempt to restrict freedom of expression. the constant search for truth and the correct information of the public remain the most important duties of the journalist, which must be protected in his work. however, these days in romania, a cnn affiliated media trust is ordered to evacuate its headquarters, and is forced to stop broadcasting. i propose that we put an end to any attempts to intimidate the press and any practices of pressure on those who have the duty to present the truth. we must protect the fundamental right to freedom of expression, as enshrined in article 2 of the european treaty. it is clear that a free press is indispensable to the success of the european project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the leaders of the european union and the leaders of the 28 member states were concerned with finding a compromise that would prevent brexit. i do not object to the policies to combat social tourism but, in the matter of child allowances, i cannot agree that they be paid at the level of the parents' country of origin if they do not live in the kingdom. children already suffer from being away from their parents, both emotionally and in the process of growing up and education. the allowances are also a form of compensation for these things. parents, who are taxpayers in the uk, have left their children in their home countries to work for the greatest value. british society also benefits from the expertise of people either doctors, teachers or engineers trained in other countries, without having spent a single pound in this educational process. thus, if there is any question of reducing payments for child benefits, the united kingdom must be obliged to pay member states for the vocational training of all foreign nationals who, through their efforts, contribute to the economic well-being of the kingdom.
that concludes the item.
blue-card question.– dear colleague, as you know, the ombudsman launched various investigations in 2014 and 2015. considering this terrible situation with migrants that is splitting the european union countries, do you not think that the ombudsman should launch an investigation on how the schengen area agreement is respected by members and how this is affecting european union citizens?
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, you spoke about the lack of transparency and gave the example of ttip. can you explain to us how you would like to continue the negotiation? because we know it's a negotiation process now.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you spoke about the cost. did you think, when you talked about the cost, and the cost that we now don't know and we demand to know, that is deaths from smoking? did you think about that cost when you talked about the costs of the tobacco industry?
blue-card question.– i would like to ask our colleague whether he thinks that that the commission should have to clarify the reasons for the delay in the publication of the assessment related to the pmi agreement of last year. moreover, does he not think that we should be informed as soon as possible about the financial implications for the union and the member states of the application of this agreement?
madam president, our group is against the amendment tabled by several groups - the socialists, the liberals and others - which makes the resolution very unbalanced. it is a text which will be very favourable to saudi arabia. we believe that the embargo is important, but that it should apply to all the actors in the region, including iran, and especially since we sent a delegation to saudi arabia, which was received by the king. the political groups who proposed this amendment did not support this position when they were there. we cannot support one thing in saudi arabia and one thing... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the efficiency of justice in the european framework is intrinsically linked to the cooperation of the judicial authorities of the different member states because, in an era of exponential growth of the movement of persons, elements of extraneity in legal relations become the rule, not the exception. in strengthening this efficiency with third countries too we have the hague convention of 15 november 1965, which applies exclusively to the crossborder service of documents in or from third countries as regards crossborder service within the european union, having regulation (ec) no 1393/2007. the expression of the desire of austria and malta, the only member states that have not acceded to the convention, to join the other member states is welcome and supports the authorisation of those member states by the union to act on its behalf by ratifying this convention. the usefulness of the convention in the field of crossborder service of documents has already been proven, and it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a single system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ of the 28 member states, 26 already apply the convention. austria and malta, the only member states that have not acceded to the convention, have expressed their wish to join the other member states. i welcome this decision.
in writing. ‒ austria and malta have indicated their wish to join the hague convention of 1965. since the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proven its usefulness in the field of the cross-border service of documents, and it is in the interest both of the union as a whole and of the two member states in question to have a single regime for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries, i supported the proposal for the decision allowing the accession of austria and malta to that convention.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the opinion of the court of justice from 14 october 2014 and the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, i believe that it is in the interest of the european union to authorise the republic of austria to sign and ratify, while malta accedes to, the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, also known as the hague convention of 15 november 1965 allows for ‘service of process’ of legal documents from one member state to another without use of consular diplomatic channels. i voted for this recommendation that will apply this convention in austria and malta, after they indicated their wish to join the other 26 member states that already apply it.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention has represented a turning point in the procedure for crossborder service of judicial, extrajudicial and commercial documents in or from third countries. it has enabled the decisions of the institutions of the signatory states to be applied in the territory of other signatory states, thus contributing to the strengthening of international legality. today, 26 of the eu's member states are signatories to this important convention, which also gives it a european dimension. austria and malta, the only member states that have not signed the convention, are in the process of becoming signatory members. in this respect, the consent of the european parliament, representing the will of the citizens of the union, is required to allow the accession of the two states to the convention. this step would complete the process of ratification of the convention at union level. it is therefore necessary to adopt this recommendation.
in writing. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters facilitates judicial cooperation in cross-border civil and commercial litigation by simplifying the methods of transmitting judicial and extrajudicial documents between contracting states. of the 28 member states of the union, only two, namely austria and malta, have not yet acceded to the convention. as a legal entity, the union cannot accede to the convention and must therefore exercise its competences through its member states. therefore, an authorisation of the accession of the member states is required. the proposal for a council decision was therefore drawn up, the main objective of which is to authorise the accession of the two states to the hague convention. in view of the importance and usefulness of this legal instrument and having found that all the legal conditions have been met, the european parliament, by means of a legislative resolution, gives its consent to the accession of these states and approves the draft council decision on this legal procedure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention, which establishes a system whereby documents can be served in another signatory state. of the 28 member states, 26 already apply the convention. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness in the field of cross-border service of documents and it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a single system for the service of documents in cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ economic developments are linked to the smoothest possible flow of information, therefore the 2015 agreement between the union and san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information to improve tax cooperation and compliance with international tax rules is only a first step, and relations need to be continued. the next step is the unconditional exchange of information on request, which will be ensured under the new agreement in 2017, in line with the latest developments in oecd and eu work in this area. i appreciate the purpose of this, which is to deal with situations where the taxpayer is trying to hide capital that represents income or assets that have not been taxed. the agreement is an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement, which ensures that the republic of san marino applies measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive, which is why i voted in favour of this draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that san marino applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. under the agreement, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017. therefore, i support its aim to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. moreover, i support the agreement as it is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve international tax cooperation and compliance, the eu and san marino signed an agreement on 8 december 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information. an automatic exchange of information on financial accounts will start in 2017. this should reduce the possibility for tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union loses €1 billion a year to tax evasion. a large part of the evasion is done in existing tax havens including in europe and other member states. today i voted in favour of the protocol amending the agreement between the commission and san marino. it enables the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts. they concern those situations where potential taxpayers try to hide capital derived from proceeds for which they have not paid taxes. similar arrangements have been agreed for other countries where tax havens exist, such as switzerland or lichtenstein. andorra and monaco are next. the automatic exchange of information is an effective and rapid method of combating cross-border tax fraud and evasion, for which the oecd has received a mandate from the g20. we cannot live together in a society where some people pay taxes and others cheat us all by hiding their earnings in tax havens.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve international tax cooperation and compliance on 8 december 2015 the european union and san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. i voted for this report that will bring a provisional entry into application of the agreement starting 1 january, thus tax administrations in the european union and in san marino will be able to administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated, identify correctly and unequivocally the concerned taxpayers and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ the european union has recently set out to combat tax evasion effectively. in this respect, the eu has concluded a number of tax cooperation agreements with third countries that are typically used as 'tax havens' to avoid the correct taxation of income. one of these states is san marino, which has always had very good cooperation with the european institutions. the commission document referred to in the current report updates the administrative cooperation between the two parties by allowing for the automatic exchange of account information in line with the 2014 oecd global standards. the information shall relate, in addition to interest and dividends, to account balances and income from the sale of financial assets. the agreement is due to enter into force in 2017, but the parties have agreed to enter into force provisionally as of 1 january 2016. the adoption of this document without delay is therefore necessary to allow the agreement to be ratified quickly and to reduce the current transitional phase.
in writing. the eu and san marino signed the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information at the end of last year, with the aim of improving tax cooperation and compliance at international level. i voted for the ep report on this agreement which is an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement, which ensures that the republic of san marino applies measures equivalent to those in the eu directive on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ in the new member states, integration into the tax legislative system and beyond is being done gradually, to allow for a real adaptation to the community acquis and a better knowledge of the new supranational realities. the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 provides for a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states pursuant to article 34 teu, and it is for the council to adopt a decision determining the date on which those conventions enter into force with regard to croatia and the adaptations to be made to those conventions following the accession of the new member state. these include adopting the conventions in the croatian language so that these versions are equally authentic. the council shall act on a recommendation from the commission after consulting the european parliament. the adoption of this commission recommendation, supported by the report, is an important step for the republic of croatia. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report relates to a consultation of parliament on a proposed recommendation for a council decision on croatia’s accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests (also known as ‘the pif convention’). as it is a consultation and the accession of croatia to the pif convention is entirely without controversy, i voted in favour of the approval of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report regarding the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union, which will set up a common base for the criminal—law protection of the european communities’ financial interests.
in writing. ‒ in 1995 a convention was put into place that seeks to protect, under criminal law, the financial interests of the european union and its taxpayers. the accession treaty of croatia in 2011 brought in an easier system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states, thus croatia accedes to these conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession, just leaving the council to adopt a decision in order to determine a date on which the conventions and protocols should enter into force. i voted for this report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the european union in 2013 was a historic moment, which gave a new dimension to the process of accession of the western balkan countries to the eu. technically, the act of accession of croatia introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to conventions and protocols concluded by member states, in order to allow the adoption of conventions in the croatian language. these documents include the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, together with the protocols adopted subsequently, with a view to establishing a common basis of protection under criminal law. for those regulations to enter into force for croatia, a council decision is necessary, in accordance with the recommendation of the commission. this document supports this procedural step and i therefore consider that it should be adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states in accordance with the teu. in practice, the council adopts a decision on the date on which those conventions enter into force with regard to croatia and the adjustments to be made to those conventions following the accession of the new member state, acting on a recommendation from the commission, after consulting the european parliament.
the report calls for greater mobility within the union and the development of a european labour market with high levels of employment. i myself consider these objectives to be important, but i would add that all this can only be achieved by strengthening cohesion policy and by bringing the poorest countries of the eu on board. in the present situation, labour migration is mainly from the east and south to the richer member states, and this is not due to the generosity of social benefits but to the general level of wages in these countries. in romania, the average net wage is around eur 400 per month, and the starting salary of a teacher is less than eur 300 per month, while the prices of goods and services are roughly the same in the western and eastern halves of europe. in such circumstances it is impossible to talk about labour market integration or the european labour market. if the process of integration of poorer member states is halted, even greater migration could start here, which could empty these countries' labour markets and create an unwanted distortion.
in writing. ‒ free movement of workers is one of the key elements for the development of an integrated labour market in the union, especially in cross-border regions, which would allow for increased mobility of workers and can contribute to increasing diversity and finding the right skills for vacancies and to removing existing bottlenecks in the labour market. the objective of this regulation is to make the eures network an effective tool for any jobseeker or employer interested in labour mobility within the eu by creating the most comprehensive portfolio of job vacancies and candidate profiles that can be accessed by anyone anywhere in the eu. moreover, it would be desirable for the network to include apprenticeships and traineeships, for which there must, however, be a regular employment relationship. in order to help workers who enjoy the right to work based on free movement to exercise this right effectively, i voted in favour of the initiatives in this report.
in writing. ‒ we know that the eures network is already functioning, but i believe that it needs to be reorganised to improve services for potential beneficiaries through better inter-ministerial coordination, to overcome the legal obstacles that exist for workers who want to work in another country, as many people are currently reluctant to accept job offers in another eu country because of uncertainty or lack of relevant information on social security systems, taxation and other obligations in their country of residence.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which will tackle a number of eures’s shortcomings, such as an incomplete pool of job vacancies and cvs, limitations to automated matching and insufficient information for employers and mobile workers. the new eures network should lead to a considerable improvement regarding the functioning of eures, thereby facilitating the placement of job seekers in europe and contributing to the reduction of unemployment and skill shortages. one major improvement is the fact that the existing eures web portal is transformed into a european platform for exchange of job vacancies and cvs. our key achievements, such as the involvement of social partners at all levels of the network, the definition of cross-border partnerships and the abolition of fees for basic eures services for workers, will make eures much more effective. hopefully, the new database will now become smarter by automatically matching the cvs with job offers. in addition, all vacancies published by public or private employment agencies will be published eu-wide by eures as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i want to increase the mobility of workers and ensure better integration into the labour market. respect for the treaties is important, especially freedom of movement. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment. labour mobility within the eu is relatively low compared to the size of the eu labour market and the active population. the eures network must be an effective tool to support both jobseekers and employers. this network should also include apprenticeships and traineeships. it is also important to ensure that all jobseekers can obtain information on the conditions of employment in another member state and receive assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i fully support the fundamental right that represents the key development of a democratic society and the freedom of movement for european workers. the appliance of the european fundamental right will avoid the inequalities between countries with a deficit of workers; it will reduce unemployment and will generate accessibility to the integration in the labour market. the purpose of this regulation is to transform the eures network into a european platform for exchange of job vacancies and cvs, where job-seekers or employers who have a stake in labour mobility can find job offers and job-seekers’ profiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in the union, although we enjoy freedom of movement, intra-community mobility is very low: only 0.29% in relation to the labour market and the active population. we can and must do more for jobseekers and employers in the intra-community space. we have eures, which must also function as a database of available jobs and information that anyone can access. people can create profiles on this network, they can look up local employment conditions, they can ask for help. it is a means of communicating directly with public or private employment services. such a platform should be simple to operate, easy to use. it may also host training or vocational training to increase the chances of european citizens in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on a european network of employment, mobility and labour market integration services because the mobility of workers within the eu needs to be strengthened and requires better regulation. i believe that the eu needs to promote existing digital tools to increase the employability of workers across the eu. the eures digital platform needs to be transformed and improved so that it covers as many job vacancies and candidate profiles as possible and can be accessed by anyone anywhere in the eu. the eures network should also be extended to apprentices and trainees. the inclusion of education and training bodies, especially in continuing training, is essential. the major objective of this regulation is to reform eures and increase its capacity. at the moment, there are 150 000 contacts per month between jobseekers and employers, resulting in over 50 000 jobs per year. the commission should come up with a contingency plan to make the platform more visible in the member states and inform the general public.
in writing. ‒ free movement of workers is a fundamental principle of the treaty held as sacred in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. based on this legislation eu citizens are entitled to look for a job in another eu country, work there without a work permit, reside there for that purpose, stay there even after employment has finished, enjoy equal treatment in access to employment, working conditions and other social and tax advantages. i voted for this report that will create a large online pool of vacancies and jobseeker profiles which can be consulted eu-wide by anyone.
in writing. ‒ the eures network was launched a few years ago to facilitate the free movement of workers within the eu. the main purpose of the platform is to assist workers to overcome barriers to mobility and to increase access to employment opportunities across the eu. a number of shortcomings in the functioning of that network have been identified in recent years, in particular with regard to unequal access to network services across the union and to insufficient exchange of information between member states on labour shortages and surpluses. the legislative proposal under discussion in the european parliament aims to correct the shortcomings identified in the operation of the network, to make it an accessible and efficient tool, and to reorient the services offered by eures from general information and guidance to improved placement and recruitment. the new provisions aim to bring together all job vacancies, job applications and cvs available from public employment services in the member states. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the ep report on the regulation which aims to make eures an effective tool for any jobseeker or employer interested in labour mobility within the eu. this regulation explicitly states that labour market policy, including all support measures, remains the exclusive competence of the member states. the ep report entitled 'european employment services network, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets' shows that the success of the eures network will depend on the integration of effective public and private employment services in the member states into the network and on targeted efforts at eu level to increase the visibility of the network in the form of sustained communication actions by the commission and member states to the general public.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 terrorist attack in sousse, tunisia, led the council of the european union to state in its conclusions that the union, in consultation with the member states, will consider the possibility of taking exceptional and temporary measures to support the already severely distressed tunisian economy. in the light of the above, the european commission proposes to grant tunisia a tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, for a total of 70 000 tonnes, free of customs duties, for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union, unilaterally and on a temporary basis, in the form of an autonomous trade measure, without increasing the overall volume of imports. in order to prevent fraud and to ensure that the envisaged autonomous trade measures bring real benefits to the tunisian economy, they should be conditional on tunisia complying with the relevant union rules on the origin of products and the related procedures. in this difficult context for tunisia, i voted in favour of reaffirming the support of the european union by taking concrete action to promote tunisia's economic development and, at the same time, to promote democracy in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned by the rising levels of unemployment and protests which have started to take place in the recent months as a result of the 2015 terrorist attacks. i would like to see tunisia’s economic and social development continue and therefore support these temporary and exceptional measures. it is crucial that the democratic transition in tunisia is consolidated and supported politically and economically. however, considering the concerns of olive oil producers in certain member states, i believe it is fundamental to have a mid-term review of the measures, which will be exceptional and for a limited period only.
in writing. ‒ i have voted according to the commission’s proposal to parliament and the council. the tunisian economy has been hit following the terrorist attacks from 2015. thus, it is crucial for the eu to support tunisia through exceptional measures in order to boost its economy.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission’s proposal of granting emergency autonomous trade preferences to tunisia. i believe that after the terrorist attacks of last year tunisia’s economy needs further assistance. the olive oil sector is crucial as it indirectly employs more than a million people in tunisia, representing one fifth of the jobs in the agricultural industry. therefore these measures will bring concrete benefits to tunisian citizens in the short run. i am painfully aware of the sensitives of certain of our member states producing olive oil. for this reason it is important to stress that the measures will be temporary and that an impact assessment should be carried out after one year as of their application.
in writing. ‒ the eu has taken steps to support tunisia’s economy after the terrorist attacks in 2015 by taking practical measures that should boost the country’s economic development. the commission is proposing to offer a zero-duty tariff quota of 70 000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu, in the form of an autonomous trade measure. i voted for this report that will benefit a large portion of the tunisian economy taking into consideration that the olive oil sector indirectly employs more than one million people.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in tunisia last year, the economy of that country suffered, as it was already facing major difficulties. the european union has supported the young tunisian democracy that emerged from the arab spring, including economically. one of the most important products of the tunisian economy is olive oil, representing a sector that directly and indirectly employs over one million people, a fifth of all jobs in agriculture. to encourage the maintenance and development of this sector, the european commission has proposed the unilateral provision, on a temporary basis, of a tariff quota exempt from customs duties, without increasing the total volume of imports. this measure is intended to support economic development and the promotion of the democratic regime in tunisia, although it affects the similar sector of the eu economy only marginally. this is a strategic measure aimed at strengthening the tunisian state and combating terrorism and immigration in an area bordering the eu. the measure is to apply until the completion of the free trade agreement between the two parties, negotiations on which started in october 2015. i think it's a healthy measure, and it's worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attack in sousse, tunisia, in june 2015 not only resulted in significant human losses, but also had a significant impact on the tunisian economy. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia envisages the granting, through a series of specific autonomous trade measures, for a period of two years, of a tariff quota exempted from customs duties of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports to the union. these trade measures are intended to help improve the difficult economic situation facing tunisia. the european parliament supports the adoption of this regulation, but calls on the european commission to carry out an impact assessment of the impact on the union olive oil market, halfway through the period provided for in the legislative proposal. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the ep report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. tunisia is going through a very difficult time, with its economy having been hit by the terrorist attacks last year. in this context, the eu wishes to reaffirm its support by taking concrete action to support tunisia's economic development, and the european commission has proposed to offer tunisia a duty-free tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, for a total of 70 000 tonnes, for olive oil exports for two years. this temporary provision does not affect the outcome of the agricultural negotiations to be held in the context of the free trade agreement, which have been under discussion since october 2015.
in writing. ‒ the union has created legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade or as a result of financial and economic crises, with the aim of helping them to reintegrate into the labour market. this financial assistance, in order to also support the quality standards of european products, should be put into practice and made more efficient, in line with the joint declaration of the european parliament, the council and the commission of 17 july 2008 by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in places where there will be increases in unemployment. in the situation set out in the report, the union is to contribute 60% of the estimated total cost of measures for the reintegration of workers, including the introduction of assistance for small enterprises, for young people wishing to start their own businesses, education and training opportunities. all of these are intended to support the affected industries in belgium, the regions concerned being hainaut and namur. i voted in favour of these funding measures, seeing them as a real solution to the problem of workers in belgium whose work has stopped as a result of increasing globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium. the application relates to 412 redundancies in hainaut-namur glass, operating in the manufacture of glass products, within the period 31 august 2014 - 31 may 2015. the egaf funding of eur 1 095 544 will contribute to helping 412 former workers through a coordinated package of integrated training, facilitating job-search, support/guidance/integration, transfer of experience, support for enterprise creation, support for collective projects and allowances.
in writing. ‒ the hainaut-namur glass application refers to 412 workers made redundant and will mobilise a total amount of eur 1 095 544 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium. i voted in favour of this report regarding mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund that will offer support for the reintegration of workers made redundant in the hainaut and namur regions of belgium.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides support for people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in the world trade patterns due to globalisation. i voted for this report that will bring a contribution of eur 1 095 544 for personalised services from the 2016 egf budget to a total of 512 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the instruments through which the european union provides assistance to the workforce affected by structural changes in world trade. the fund may not use more than the maximum total amount of eur 150 million from the consolidated budget of the union. assistance shall be provided in cases where member states signal a situation of extreme need and only following the interinstitutional agreement between the commission, the council and parliament. in the present case, the belgian state requested eu intervention to reintegrate workers made redundant following the closure of two glass-producing enterprises in the hainaut-namur region. the proposed intervention amounts to approximately eur 1 million to be paid to belgium. the commission's response to this request was positive as it was considered that these events occurred due to the unfavourable development of the global glass market. the funds will be used mainly for counselling, job fairs, vocational training, support for free initiative and collective projects. as this is about supporting the reintegration of a large contingent into the labour market, i express my support for this measure.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been through a prolonged economic crisis, which has caused severe social difficulties and eroded the potential for economic growth. the european union is also facing a number of difficulties, in particular terrorist attacks, geopolitical instability in neighbouring regions, and the arrival of a very large number of refugees. with regard to the economic policy mix to be implemented in 2016, the euro area and the member states need to be able to build on the recent economic recovery, address structural challenges and contribute to a long-term strategy. the overall assessment of the 2016 draft budgetary plans shows that the expected largely neutral fiscal stance of the euro area at aggregate level appears to be broadly appropriate, also taking into account the unprecedentedly low level of interest rates and the high external surplus, which could indicate that some demand-side support is needed. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and the annual growth analysis for 2016 because i argue that the european union needs a set of well-established economic policies in order to be able to record economic growth for the european semester in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union does not have an economic policy, but a set of national economic policies, and in this context i believe that the lack of a common strategic vision should give us pause to think about how to act in order to define a common economic policy, given the enormous differences between member states in economic, social and political terms.
in writing. ‒ i support that the eu needs to rely much more on internal demand and more private and public investment. surplus countries need to expand their budgets in order to support investment and growth everywhere in the eu while deficit countries need to be allowed more fiscal space through the flexibility instrument to invest more. i believe that the euro-area aggregate fiscal stance also needs to be considered and not only individual member states with an exclusive focus on deficit countries, as is the case today. surplus countries need to make a greater effort in increasing wages and internal demand. and finally, i would like to underline that the economic policy mix to be implemented by the eu, the euro area and by the individual member states in 2016 needs to strengthen the recent economic recovery while addressing structural challenges and contributing to a long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it represents the european parliament's contribution to the development of economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester policy coordination process. the european union needs a stronger economic recovery that generates quality jobs and restores equality of opportunity. the economic policy mix to be put in place in 2016 by the eu, the euro area and each member state must be able to build on the recent economic recovery, while also addressing structural challenges and contributing to a long-term strategy for sustainable growth. the europe 2020 strategy underwent a mid-term review and was reconfirmed by the european parliament and the commission as the overarching framework that can deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu. for this strategy to be effective and realistic, it is essential that the agreed priorities and recommendations made in the european semester are fully consistent with the strategy and focus on its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey sets out goals at eu level to help member states support growth, reinforce economic convergence, create jobs and strengthen social fairness. i voted for this report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs that shows parliament’s input to the definition of policy priorities for the 2016 european semester. this report should stimulate debates at european level on the priorities for the next 12 months of eu economic policy.
madam president, despite the slowly-diminishing unemployment rate and the persistent positive trend of economic growth, behind the overall figures there are still strong differences between member states as well as structural problems on the employment market. besides the lower-than-desired percentage of economically-active women and youth unemployment above 20% , most worrying is the number of long-term unemployed, which has doubled in recent years, translating into a serious risk of poverty and social exclusion in our societies and the regrettable waste of human capital. this is why i welcome the report’s call for more responsible structural reforms and for more investment in human capital in order to develop resilient economies. an inclusive labour market can then also withstand the challenges posed by population ageing and increasing economic dependency.
in writing. ‒ 2016 is the third year of economic recovery and with growth forecast to continue at 2% in the european union and 1.8% in the euro area, but recovery is uneven across member states. this is driven by positive factors such as the continuously falling price of energy, which contributes to the increase in purchasing power, where it has an impact on the real economy. since 2013, the unemployment rate has decreased slowly, but not sufficiently to limit unemployment and poverty, despite structural reform and stimulus macroeconomic policies. currently, unemployment affects 9.9% of europeans in the labour force, half of whom are long-term unemployed. the most affected sector is the youth sector, which currently accounts for 22.6% of the eu population. i voted in favour of this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016 because i believe that a reduction in unemployment throughout the european union is necessary and that this can only be achieved through improved economic policies.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that in order to strengthen the europe 2020 strategy's role in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, steps must be taken to ensure that its objectives, in particular those of a social nature, are equally reflected in all the instruments of the semester, including the country-specific recommendations.
in writing. ‒ quality jobs, equal opportunities and fair mobility are the basis for european upward social convergence. i believe that socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and fair wealth distribution. therefore, i support the need for european upward social convergence, the need for quality and inclusive employment and promotion of stability in employment and security in transitions between jobs. more investment in social protection systems is also requested to prevent poverty and inequalities, together with a strong first pension pillar, introduction of minimum incomes, investment in education to fight youth unemployment and support for unemployed people, especially the long-term unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey launches the european semester by setting out the eu’s economic priorities for the year to come. this is actually the first step in the annual cycle. in this report, specific recommendations for the euro area are included for the first time. i believe that reforms must be based on solidarity, social justice and fair wealth distribution. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination - employment. member states must urgently develop policies on youth employment, adapting them to the real requirements of the labour market. the commission should come up with a concrete plan for coordinating businesses, educational institutions, civil society and social partners to adapt education and training systems in the member states and to match competences at eu level. there are almost 2 million unfilled jobs in the eu, half of them in the digital sector, and 40% of companies have difficulty finding staff with the necessary skills. on the other hand, the eu-wide unemployment rate is 23% among young people. europe must find solutions to use these young people in the labour market. the commission should encourage education and training programmes to avoid the serious situation of these young people being excluded from the labour market in the long term. the youth guarantee is a good proposal, especially because it facilitates the transition between school and work. its uniform application and efficiency in all member states is imperative.
in writing. ‒ the priorities set out by the commission in the annual growth survey 2016 address openly the shortcomings of the european economy and bring out a fresh policy mix fostering investment in the single market and reducing inequalities. given the tensions between member states nurtured by people’s mobility within eu and the huge immigration waves coming from war zones, i fully support the focus laid out this year on employment and social performance.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey sets out goals at eu level to help member states support growth, reinforce economic convergence, create jobs and strengthen social fairness. i voted for this report by the committee on employment and social affairs that shows parliament’s input to the definition of policy priorities for the 2016 european semester. this report should stimulate debates at european level on the priorities for the next 12 months of european economic policy.
in writing. ‒ unemployment remains the eu's main economic challenge. economic growth is stable in most eu regions, budget deficits are declining, but this positive ratio does not include the reduction in unemployment. of the 23 million europeans facing unemployment, more than half are stuck in this situation for the long term. we need to connect the european fund for strategic investments much better to the labour market. at the moment, we do not have a social evaluation of the projects funded by this programme. moreover, there are countries with poverty-stricken regions that do not yet have a project adopted in the efsi. we can also consider extending programmes to reduce youth unemployment. in terms of both the age of the beneficiaries and the amounts allocated, i think we can sustain an increase. last but not least, i expect a clearer link between the european semester and the social aspects of the eu. the social economy remains a distant dream, with only 10% of all european companies falling into this category. we can get more in the next period!
in writing. ‒ given that the european model is first and foremost a market-based social and economic system, in the sense that no computer in the world can process information better than the market, i believe that the commission should draw up an annual report on the existing barriers to the single market in different member states and the european union as a whole and issue recommendations, within the framework of the country-specific recommendations, aimed at removing them, stressing that the single market should play a more important role in the country-specific recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i support the importance of the inclusion of a single market pillar in the european semester process highlighting the significant contribution for jobs and growth that could derive from the effective completion of the single market. i believe that such inclusion should encompass, among others, specific indicators and benchmarks related to the single market. a more coherent policy mix, focused on investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, along with stronger democratic accountability, are deemed essential within the european semester.
in writing. ‒ we voted for this report in view of the importance of the single market and its impact on the eu's current and future economic prosperity. the untapped potential of the single market is estimated at €1 trillion, and is both an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensure that it works for the benefit of all. cross-border development and job creation in rural and poor areas are needed, as are common policies on competitiveness. the network of national competitiveness councils needs to increase its role in common policies in this area. public procurement and the public sector are important vectors, but we need transparency and ethical competition. smes need to be aware of the governance of the single market in the european semester and resources need to be allocated at national and european level, particularly in rural areas. the european parliament regulates, but the commission and the member states have the obligation to find the most intelligent methods of implementation.
in writing. ‒ the single market accounts for 500 million people and an estimated 23 million smes. i agree with the rapporteur that the slow pace of investment in the eu and the difficulties that smes encounter in accessing capital are critical barriers to growth and job creation in the european union. the commission’s investment plan for europe and the european fund for strategic investments are most welcome and ease access to funding for smes. moreover, a wider range of financing options for smes is a priority of the capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ the single market refers to the european union as one territory without any internal borders or other regulatory obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. it stimulates competition and trade, improves efficiency, raises quality and helps cut prices. i voted for this report that will include the single market in the 2016 european semester, the european union’s annual cycle of economic policy guidance and surveillance.
in writing. ‒ home to 500 million consumers and 21 million smes, the single market is not just one of the foundations of the eu, but in its current phase of development, one of the greatest achievements of our european union. this is why i most welcome the adoption of this report identifying both improvements to its governance and avenues through which it could be better adapted to the realities and challenges of the 21st century. seeing that today over 70% of all economic activity in the eu and a similar proportion of its employment are in services, i believe that this is the area which we should most concentrate on by establishing and better implementing and enforcing rules on fair and healthy competition. it is essential that these start with the freedom to provide services across borders, non-discrimination and territorial limitations, such as geo-blocking.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2016. according to the rapporteur, the single market is a precious resource on which the eu's current and future economic prosperity depends, with the untapped potential of the single market estimated at €1 000 billion. i agree with her that there are too many trade barriers within the eu and many member states do not implement decisions to which they are signatories. the report also states that coordination of macro and microeconomic policies, accompanied by coordination of fiscal policies, is necessary to ensure the desired structural economic growth in eu member states.
in writing. ‒ since october 2015, the european union and tunisia have started negotiations for a new and much more ambitious free trade agreement, an agreement based on the mandate adopted unanimously by the european union states on 14 december 2011, and the first rounds of negotiations started on 19-22 october 2015. the main arguments for the new contract are the history of cooperation between the european union and tunisia, which dates back to 1969, with tunisia being the first country on the southern shore of the mediterranean to sign an association agreement with the european union in 1995. the conclusion of a new trade agreement between the european union and tunisia should open up prospects for economic growth and, not least, for the rapprochement of the economies of both parties, as this partnership should help tunisia to achieve both political and demographic stability. i voted in favour of this report on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia because i believe that this agreement is beneficial for both the european union and tunisia, from an economic, political and demographic point of view.
in writing. ‒ concerning the negotiations for a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with tunisia, i believe it will improve market access and investment opportunities, and support ongoing reforms in tunisia, to ultimately integrate tunisia into the eu and world economy. however it is important to ensure that tunisia’s economy is opened in a gradual asymmetric manner, with transition periods and special attention given to sensitive sectors and public services.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has been left in a delicate state economically, politically and socially following the terrorist attacks that took place in recent months. however, this has not stopped the tunisian authorities taking in more than 1.8 million libyan refugees. this action should be applauded greatly in the current context. i consider that it is the european union’s job to support tunisia through its difficult times and i welcome the opening of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the opening of negotiations for a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia in october 2015. the agreement must contribute to the development and diversification of tunisian economy which is currently highly dependent on agriculture. it must also bring concrete benefits to its citizens in terms of consumer prices, employment and wages. apart from provisions in areas such as services, public procurement and intellectual property rights, the agreement will provide in particular for the approximation of tunisian legislation to eu legislation in trade-related areas. this should lead to a progressive integration of the tunisian economy into the eu single market. i believe that the effects of the agreement will also contribute to the consolidation of democracy in tunisia and to the political stability of the country. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the next 10 to 15 years almost 90% of the world’s demand will be generated outside the european union. this is why through its agreements the eu should boost its growth potential by opening up market opportunities for european businesses abroad. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that should open the negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement and seek to contribute to the stability of tunisia to the consolidation of its democracy and economy.
in writing. ‒ trade agreements can provide opportunities for european producers while encouraging democratic reforms and economic prosperity in third countries. i welcome the opening of trade negotiations with tunisia, as this will support the country in its efforts to overcome political and economic challenges and contribute to regional stability. the potential for the eu’s trade agreements to deliver improvements in human rights and environmental standards must be fully realised.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman is responsible for receiving complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the institutions of the european union. as regards 2014, the ombudsman opened 325 inquiries on the basis of complaints and 17 inquiries on his own initiative and closed 387 inquiries on the basis of complaints and 13 inquiries on his own initiative. in 2014, the ombudsman dealt with 2 163 complaints received. in 1 217 cases, the ombudsman's services found counselling or referral of cases, in 621 cases complainants were informed that they could no longer receive further counselling, and in 325 cases investigations were initiated. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ms emily oreilly has successfully fulfilled her role as european ombudsman, given her report for 2014, and i believe that she is the right person to continue to work within the institutions of the european union in the following year.
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome the ombudsman’s greater use of her power to launch investigations on her own initiative such as on transparency in the ttip negotiations, how frontex ensures the respect of fundamental rights of migrants who are subject to forced returns, and composition of the commission’s expert groups, clinical trials and lobby activities as well as her work towards a mandatory transparency register. key investigations for 2014 have been carried on, such as the ones on the participation of citizens in eu decision-making, on eu funded projects and programmes, and on eu competition policy. the ombudsman plays a vital role in helping eu institutions become more open, effective and citizen-friendly with the aim of strengthening citizens’ confidence in the union, and i believe this report will help the ombudsman in ensuring that these objectives are met.
in writing. ‒ transparency is a paramount european value. transparency is also crucial in all eu negotiations. i would like to salute the ombudsman’s inquiries towards the transparency of the ttip negotiations. furthermore, i would like to ask for a comprehensive approach from the member states towards mandatory collaboration with the ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman can, at the request of any eu citizen, investigate an eu institution on the grounds of administrative irregularities, discrimination, abuse of power, unfairness, failure to reply and refusal of information. i have voted for this report that summarises the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014.
in writing. i voted on the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. i support the rapporteur's assessment of the work of emily oreilly, who was re-elected by parliament as european ombudsman at the strasbourg plenary on 16 december 2014. it is worth noting that the ep report welcomes the ombudsman's determination to launch strategic investigations on his own initiative, and that he is effective in assisting the eu institutions in their efforts to provide citizens and residents of europe with the best possible service, with a focus on transparency, to ensure good administration.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank for 2014 summarises the main aspects of the ecb's activity in the period under review, highlighting the highlights of the ecb's action, which led to the development of certain recommendations. the european central bank acted promptly on the difficult situation of low inflation, declining lending, slow economic growth, and the ecb's use of unconventional monetary policy instruments. however, further sustained efforts are needed to strengthen potential growth and to reduce the high unemployment rates in many euro area member states, as well as to reduce debt. improving conditions for public and private investment to stimulate growth and job creation is also needed. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european central bank needs to continue its contribution to the general economic policies of the union and to the achievement of the objectives of those policies in order to overcome economic obstacles and ensure economic growth in all member states.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual report on the european central bank, in which the european parliament expresses its views on the work carried out in 2014. the ecb lunched a new phase of non-standard measures in 2014 which came after the decline in inflation rates since 2013 and tenuous euro area growth prospects. however, we all know that there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve. we need more investment and socially—balanced structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank is the central bank of the 19 european union member states that have adopted the euro. its main task is to maintain price stability in the euro area and preserve the purchasing power of the single currency. i have voted for this report on the european central bank’s annual activity report for 2014 that highlights the steps needed for a stronger monetary union, amongst which we can identify the commission’s plan to establish a capital markets union that should diversify sources of financing in the eu economy, boost cross-border investment and increase access to financing for business, especially smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. the report speaks of the need for further efforts to secure the financing of the real economy in the context of a differentiated return of the euro area economies. the attention the rapporteur has paid to the sme sector is to be appreciated. it notes that there are still discrepancies between the financing rates for smes and those for larger companies, between the interest rates for small loans and those for large loans, and between the credit terms offered to smes in different euro area countries. the report also shows that, despite the ecb's continued efforts to maintain favourable financing conditions, private and public investment in the euro area is still well below pre-crisis levels. the rapporteur also stresses that the ecb's supervisory role and its monetary policy function must be clearly differentiated and the combination of these functions should not give rise to any conflict of interest for the ecb.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand comes as a natural step in strengthening the partnership between these countries and the european union. australia and new zealand are among the eu's longest-standing partners, sharing common values and committed to promoting prosperity and security within a rules-based global system. australia and new zealand also collaborate in a number of international fora, acting against common challenges. furthermore, the eu and new zealand are parties to the agreement on government procurement, and australia is in the process of acceding to it. the eu, australia and new zealand are also engaged in multilateral negotiations to further liberalise trade in organic products. given the significant number of agreements under negotiation between the eu and its main trading partners, the conclusion of free trade agreements between the eu and australia and new zealand will deepen trade and investment relations, creating the conditions for advancing economic relations to a new level, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the leaders of eu and australia, in their meeting on 15 november 2015, agreed to commence work towards the launch of negotiations for a free trade agreement. the eu and new zealand, in their meeting on 29 october 2015, also announced the start of the process for negotiations on a comprehensive free trade agreement. i am strongly in favour of starting a discussion on key global issues such as human rights, security, development and protection of the environment with australia and new zealand. it is important to understand the possible risks of trade diversion resulting from the tpp, and how these affect the potential interest of the eu in concluding high-quality comprehensive ftas with australia and new zealand. launching negotiations for swift, high-quality and comprehensive agreements would further integrate the eu into value chains in the asia-pacific region. i hope that negotiations with these important trade partners will start as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i support the opening of fta negotiations with australia and new zealand, countries with which we share values and cooperate on many issues at the global level. i have publicly called for this as one of the measures that the western world needs to undertake in order to tackle its ‘big contraction’. it is actually quite striking that australia and new zealand are two of only six wto members with which we have no preferential arrangement in place or under negotiation. of course the agreement will have to be comprehensive, respect our sensitives, notably in the agricultural sector, and include an ambitious trade and sustainable development chapter.
in writing. ‒ in the next 10 to 15 years almost 90% of the world’s demand will be generated outside the european union. this is why through its agreements the eu should boost its growth potential by opening up market opportunities for european businesses abroad. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that should open the negotiations for a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand addressing investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption and other regulatory issues.
in writing. we voted for the ep resolution on the opening of negotiations for free trade agreements (ftas) with australia and new zealand. in the resolution, the rapporteurs consider that the full potential of the union's bilateral and regional cooperation strategies can only be realised through the conclusion of high-quality ftas with both australia and new zealand. i agree with their view that negotiating a modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive fta with australia and new zealand, taking into account the specific features of their economies, is a pragmatic way to deepen bilateral partnerships and strengthen existing, mature bilateral trade and investment relations, while also contributing to mitigating the potential diversionary effects of the recently concluded tpp.
in writing. ‒ there have been reports from various non-governmental organisations, competent authorities and veterinary organisations of an increase in the illegal trade in pet animals, accompanied by numerous abuses within the pet movement system. this abuse of the pet movement system is estimated to be the third most profitable form of illicit trade in the eu, after drugs and arms trafficking. the impact of this practice is serious, with negative implications for both human and pet health. 70% of the new diseases that have occurred in humans in recent decades are of animal origin, and the illegal pet trade is therefore facilitating the spread of diseases that could endanger the health of citizens. in addition, pet animals that are illegally traded are often raised in poor conditions and are at high risk of disease. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that introducing compatible pet registration systems across all member states would ensure compliance with animal welfare requirements and also limit the risks associated with the illegal trade in pet animals.
in writing. ‒ believing in the positive effect that pets have on the lives of millions of owners and families across the european union, i believe that owners should be able to travel with their pets safely and in controlled conditions across the union and, in this context, i welcome the improvements to the pet movement system.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of a new passport model, which stipulates that cats, dogs and ferrets can travel with their owners within the eu if they have a passport that contains proof of their identity and their anti-rabies vaccination, all of which must comply with specific conditions. eu countries must provide the public with clear and easily accessible information concerning the requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pets and the rules for compliance checks on such movement. i support the call for an eu-wide database for pet registration, and i welcome the fact that the commission agreed to carry out a study on the welfare of dogs and cats forming the subject of commercial practices. if the commission will find evidence that such practices incurred health risks, it should consider additional measures, including the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals accessible across member states. i am expecting the commission to give an update on the progress made to date.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution on compatible systems of identification and registration requirements for dogs, cats and wild animals kept as pets that should reduce illegal trading, thus protecting public and animal health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen is extremely worrisome, since the delivery of assistance has been impacted by continued fighting. conflict combined with poverty, forced displacement and rising food prices have aggravated an already serious humanitarian crisis during the last year. i welcome the fact that the european commission responded to the dramatic deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen with an additional eur 15 million in emergency funding in december. this assistance will prioritise life-saving assistance in the sectors of health, water, nutrition and food security, which have been particularly affected by the conflict and the collapse of government services. parties to the conflict have to abide by international humanitarian law and to ensure protection of civilians by refraining from direct and indiscriminate targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure. especially, the bombing of civilians and hospitals has to be avoided by all means, and represents a violation of international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ it is deplorable that yemen has become the ground for a proxy war between saudi arabia and iran. this conflict has resulted in a major humanitarian crisis with many dead and the displacement of millions. saudi arabia and iran must put an end to this war that has plagued the state of yemen.
in writing. ‒ in yemen, the parties to the conflict are launching massive and systematic attacks on civilians, as reported by the un, information also received in the international press. in december 2015, the un estimated that at least 5,700 civilians had been killed in yemen. the conflict has led to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, which has so far affected 80% of the population of yemen. the lack of security in rural areas forces the population to support the different tribes, including supporting the way they resolve conflicts in the absence of state institutions. insecurity causes many tribal groups to be influenced by terrorist groups. i call on saudi arabia and iran, who directly or indirectly support the conflict, to make an effort for peace and reconciliation. this proxy war has serious implications for the security of the region.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is obviously reaching alarming proportions across the country, with grave risks for the stability of the region and a threat to international peace and security. it is clear to me that unless and until stability is restored, other major issues like food insecurity, poverty, spiralling violence and spread of terrorist organisations, illiteracy are hard to address. thus i fully support this resolution that urges all stakeholders to open peace negotiations and political dialogue that would put an end to the yemeni struggle.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on all state and non-state actors involved in the conflict to work together towards peace and reconciliation. the motion for a resolution urges saudi arabia and iran to work together in order to find a peaceful solution for this crisis.
madam president, we are very concerned about the situation of the press in turkey and the madness in the universities. but we do not think it is necessary to have a separate debate tomorrow, as the green group proposes. the reason is very simple: on wednesday morning, if you look at the agenda, we have a debate on turkey, and in particular on today's meeting between the 28 heads of state or government and the turkish prime minister. moreover, the president of our parliament has just sent us, about thirty minutes ago, a note explaining that the issue of zaman in particular has already been raised by him and by the representatives of the member states.
blue-card question.– dear colleague, i would like to ask you something. i completely agree that this is a very important educational programme for children, but the title of this report and the fact that we are emphasising bananas – we speak about fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk – do you not think that we should emphasise european fruit products, such as the apple? we could say supply of fruit, vegetables, apples and milk, because bananas come from imports. we should help to sustain european production, do you not think so?
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, madam president. sure, and i agree that the health of the children is a priority and i congratulate marc tarabella. my question and my ambiguity is about supplementing funding or more aid for children between the ages of 6 and 10. why 10 and not 14? how was this category established? in my opinion, there should be a wider age range. thank you. thank you.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr. brannen, i had to ask you a question because i really liked what you presented, namely the problem of stray dogs. here's the crux of it, in my opinion, and we probably all have our experiences. my question is: do you see how you can manage the health of stray dogs? do you suggest, in the report, how to do this? because, really, i think that's the problem here, not with dogs that have a master and who understand how to treat their dogs. thank you very much.
member of the commission.– mr president, the commission welcomes the report that we will discuss today. i sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for the important and future-oriented work he has accomplished. thank you also to the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on transport and tourism for the good quality of the report. the port services regulation is an important piece of the european transport policy to foster investment and push further modernisation of ports. you know about the crucial role of ports for the transport system and our economy. they are europe’s gateways to the world. they provide employment in ports directly and in related sectors. they are hubs for short-sea shipping which we must strengthen as part of our decarbonisation strategy. in short, ports are valuable assets which we must preserve and strengthen. that is what the regulation aims at and that is why it is one of the commission’s priority files for 2016. the regulation will ensure transparency in the use of public funds in ports. we need to ensure a level playing field between european ports, many of which receive considerable financial support from both national and eu budgets. financial transparency is crucial for this. financial transparency will also allow us to simplify the application of state aid rules. the commission is working on the general block exemption regulation; it should exempt certain port investments from state aid rules and focus the commission’s work on critical cases in order to establish a genuine level playing field. a first draft, proposed, was published today for consultation. and today the public consultation has started. the port services regulation will provide an important input into this work, provided it gets your support. the port services regulation will also bring more clarity for the organisation and tendering of port services. it will end today’s unclear situation where ports policy is not decided by the legislator but defined on a case-by-case basis by the european court of justice, only according to the treaty principles. the adoption of the regulation will therefore mean more legal clarity and legal stability for both port workers and investors. the regulation is also important for our decarbonisation strategy, which after cop21 we are even more committed to. making ports more attractive is essential to developing alternatives to congested motorways and avoiding unnecessary land and sea traffic. we need to diversify maritime routes and promote short-sea shipping. the report got broad support in the committee on transport and tourism. all major organisations representing the european port sector stand behind it: the trade unions, port authorities, port terminal operators and port service providers. let me stress that the commission fully supports the social dialogue as well as better training and safety for workers. let me also stress that the regulation does not impose a one-size-fits-all approach. we know that every port in europe is different. the draft regulation respects this. it is compatible with all forms of organisations, including private ports. it does not impose one model. your vote tomorrow, to start the trilogues, is essential for advancing with this important piece of legislation. the council already adopted a general approach in 2014. this was one of the major successes of the italian presidency. it is time for parliament to enter into negotiations with the council and conclude this file. the dutch presidency is very interested in negotiating and concluding the file still before summer. i am inviting you all not to lose this opportunity.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, madam commissioner, i too appreciate that this is an extremely important report, as the commissioner has also told us. i would like to ask a specific question. no point of view resulted from your intervention. the difference between the commission's proposal and the rapporteurs' proposal on the setting of port charges. do you think it is right that the report now states: the commission's proposal to set up a committee of representatives of operators to set the level of fees should be dropped, or would it be better for ports to set the fees for operators themselves?
mr president, commissioner, the subject has been and is still being intensely debated. there are diverse and divergent views on some provisions. however, an encouraging compromise has been reached: the regulation will create jobs, develop and increase the competitiveness of the important economic sector of ports; it allows autonomy for setting tariffs, creating better conditions for competition and for better quality services at affordable prices; it introduces financial transparency, ensuring a level playing field for all actors and means of combating illegal state aid. the regulation will apply to all ports included in the tnt. member states shall, however, have the flexibility to exclude ports in the comprehensive network from peripheral regions. small ports have the flexibility to avoid red tape and disproportionate costs in order to enhance efficiency and quality of service. the economic situation and competition in the sector require a decision that has been discussed for more than ten years. negotiation with the council is necessary and can lead to the elimination of the current disputes.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, in 2014, member states reported 1 650 cases of fraud, amounting to eur 540 million. this is the figure we're talking about and it's only for one year! this is not european money in the abstract, but it is the money of european citizens, it is our money. the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of this money. the commission should also maintain strict rules for interruption and suspension of payments. indicators for measuring corruption in the member states should be used. this is one of the minimum urgent measures that must be taken. another urgent measure: the protection of whistleblowers, so-called whistleblowers. the experience of those working in the european institutions who have uncovered illegalities has often been traumatic, and as such, there are fewer and fewer such integrity whistleblowers, which costs us money. the regulations must be changed and these people must be protected. another measure: publishing agreements with tobacco companies, with all tobacco companies. the agreements must be published to prevent, as far as possible, smuggling of tobacco. i also ask that the 'carrousel of vat' for european funds be made a criminal offence in the directive on the protection of financial interests and that this onslaught by the member states, the majority of member states who do not want this carrousel of vat, the fraud of european vat money, to be a criminal offence, be stopped. the adoption of the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office is also a mandatory and urgent measure. all our money is in the same basket, and if it is stolen in one member state, it is actually stolen from all of us.
madam president, i listened with interest to the whole debate and also to the commissioner's speech. it is very good that the report distinguishes between intentional and technical irregularities. i want to say one thing that i personally think is important. a new office, the european public prosecutor's office, is proposed as a solution. i have been working in the czech republic for ten years on the reform of the czech judiciary and i must say that the subject of this office has always met with great resistance from the professional public. and i personally believe that we're a little bit confused here, that we're creating a new office and solving a certain problem. it should be made clear that doubts and problems will continue to be decided by the national courts. the european ombudsman has also been consulted on the draft law on the european union's criminal law framework, which is currently being prepared by the european parliament and the council. i think that's more important than setting up a new office.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i consider this report to be extremely important, given the level of fraud in the internal market. fraud generates corruption, and corruption, obviously, affects the member states, the citizens, in fact, of the member states, creating costs of hundreds of billions of euros annually. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i think that controls need to be improved, but, commissioner, i think prevention is more important. that's been said before. it is a disgrace to the citizens of a country when funding is cut off or payments are suspended, because because of a mistake, all the citizens of the country bear the consequences. i think there needs to be more simplification of procedures, because there are a lot of mistakes, not intentional mistakes, in the spending of funds and, of course, in the reporting that is done. i don't believe in the additional institutions. that's why i don't support the eppo. i believe in prevention very much.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. lady, you asked several questions in your speech, but i would like to add one more. the commissioner was talking to us about the importance of smes and i would like to ask you: do you think that the regulations relating to big data, the small business act, take into account the need to think first on a small scale and not to make regulations 'in bulk' and again for smes to bear the consequences of a regulation that is not specific to them?
madam president, digital data collection and processing of human activities, industrial processes, research and various other areas keep growing on an unprecedented scale. big data size has developed from a few dozen terabytes in 2012 to many petabytes of data today. as the commission has pointed out in its communication, this development could have a very strong impact on a large number of fields ranging from health and food security to resource efficiency, energy, intelligent transport systems and so on, but it also represents an enormous economic potential for companies, the creation of new jobs and the development of new business models. the fields of big data offer the possibility for europe to gain a foothold in an advanced ict sector with strong growth. this is why the european union must step into the existing possibilities as quickly as possible and close the gap compared to the us. in this sense, in order to create the necessary conditions for the thriving single market in big data it is essential to improve coordination in matters of interoperability and standards and to boost investment in the ict sector in areas such as the internet of things, high-speed broadband networks, research and education. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, of course. the little ones always have a disadvantage in fighting the big ones. that's the only problem.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone again for their questions and comments. the commission is committed to maximising the growth potential of the data—driven economy with its digital single market strategy and other initiatives planned for this year. i agree with vicki ford, who underlined the importance of really transparent e-procurement. according to analyses prepared by the european parliament, if we are able to implement e-procurement across europe we could save eur 50 billion per year, which is a huge amount of money – and, i am sorry to say, we do not have this money. we have to implement and introduce e-invoices in all the member states. we have to use digital signatures more proactively. of course, we have to pay attention to privacy issues. we have to protect everybody’s privacy, but we have to allow free data flows across europe. governments have to open their data in all the member states. all of the companies, all the players, have to get access to data – it does not matter whether they are small and medium-sized companies or bigger players. the digital divide is a real issue in the european union. this divide is not only between our member states, but also within member states, even in those member states where it is highly developed. we can see that there is a real digital divide between downtown and rural areas, between men and women, and between young and elderly people, and we have to deal with all those issues. you gave me just a minute, and i have already been speaking for two and a half minutes – i am so sorry, we don’t have time. the commission will propose all those legislative proposals during this year. we have to hurry up, because while yes, of course we have some risks, the real risk is to lose this competition. i would like to thank members for today’s debate. i look forward to working swiftly and efficiently with the co-legislators to design and build the necessary conditions for a data-driven economy that benefits everyone in society – individual people, public bodies and the private sector.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 march 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing.– data are essential in the current economy. ‘data’ means knowledge, innovation and tools that can help stimulate entrepreneurship, help with administration or improve our education systems. unfortunately, europe is not in the forefront of the data-driven economy, even though it has a huge potential. in order to take advantage of this opportunity we need to be clear on the rules applying at european level, create the instruments to stimulate data-driven entrepreneurship and support the creation of a europe-wide data economy infrastructure. last but not least, we need to create a pan-european exchange of best practice and pool our experience in order to stimulate this sector, which is essential for the future of our economy.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by angelika mlinar, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament [(2015/2230(ini)] (a8—0034/2016).
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank ms mlinar for this draft report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming is an important tool to achieve real equality between women and men. for the eu, it is article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which states that: ‘in all its activities, the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities, and to promote equality between men and women’. gender mainstreaming is therefore not a choice, but an obligation. all major institutions, including the european parliament and the commission, are confronted with the permanent challenge of putting gender mainstreaming into practice and continuously improving its effectiveness. the so-called ‘dual approach’ of specifically targeted gender equality actions, on the one hand, and gender mainstreaming on the other hand, has proven successful not only at european level, but also at national, regional and local levels. the commission also follows this dual approach in the recently published strategic engagement for gender equality 2016—2019. this strategic paper, in line with the principle of gender mainstreaming, emphasises the need to integrate a gender equality perspective into all eu policies, legislation and funding programmes. in practice, this is translated into constant efforts to integrate a gender equality perspective into every aspect of eu intervention. it means assessing the impact of commission action on both women and men and taking responsibility for adjustment if necessary, so that equality between women and men is promoted and equalities are not perpetuated. in order to monitor the implementation of gender mainstreaming in the commission in practice, the strategic engagement announces that the commission will consider issuing a report on gender mainstreaming in 2017. the commission’s inter-service group for equality between women and men, managed by the dg for justice and consumers, plays a key role in implementing gender mainstreaming at the commission. finally, let me congratulate ms ward on her birthday today and wish all of us a good women’s day tomorrow.
the item is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 march 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. gender and equal opportunities is a concept that came into force on the european agenda in 1996, with the commission's commitment to develop a dual system to address inequalities between women and men. after 20 years, neither the european commission nor the member states have been able to rally behind the principle of equal opportunities and gender equality. it's said that women who want to be equal to men are not ambitious enough, which may be a fitting quote for a feminist cause on international women's day, but it's far from a reality-reflecting quote. the reality is that a significant number of women are still discriminated against in the eu on gender grounds; the reality is that certain areas, such as transport, remain inaccessible to many women; the reality is that we have failed to integrate genuine education on equal opportunities and gender equality into european public policies. the european commission must come up with a new strategy and communication for gender equality in the eu, 20 years after the 1996 commitment. we need concrete solutions, programmes developed and adequately funded to integrate women into decision-making positions in all european institutions.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the internationalisation of smes should not be a slogan. facilitating access for smes to third markets is a key factor in economic growth in the european union. experts estimate that 90% of global growth will come from outside the european union, and emerging markets will account for 60% of global gdp by 2030. the commission is therefore obliged to create a specific process to support smes for internationalisation. the eu is currently negotiating two major agreements, ttip and the investment agreement with china. the commission must take account of these agreements, in particular the possibility for smes to operate on the two markets. in particular, in order to be able to internationalise smes in the european union, they must take account, when negotiating trade agreements, of the spirit of fair competition and the existence of reciprocal trade defence measures on external markets. otherwise, the internationalisation process is very slow and smes will not be able to operate in markets other than the domestic market.
madam president, in the current economic and commercial context, european and national institutions must act efficiently and in a coordinated manner to stimulate the growth of high-performance breeds of sheep. i raise this issue because the european union is facing an annual shortfall of some three hundred thousand tonnes of sheepmeat, while consumption in this sector is constantly increasing, and worldwide demand for sheepmeat and lamb is continually expanding and the overall shortfall is already estimated at 20%. ambitious recovery targets and effective policies are therefore needed to improve the competitiveness of the sheep sector, in particular in member states where production is deficient in relation to the sheep population. this is also the case in romania, which has the highest growth potential among the countries of the european union. i strongly urge the european commission to provide concrete and consistent support for the breeding of high-performance sheep breeds in romania and in other countries where yields need to be improved to meet the needs of consumers and to exploit european export opportunities.
it was not surprising that there are democratically elected representatives here, in this parliament, who believe that there are no national minorities in their country. and anyone who dares to speak out about their situation and draw attention to the violations is attacking a member state. it is much sadder, however, that there are members of the largest groups in this house whose views are not very different from those of these organisations, which they themselves have already described as extremist. i would like to believe that article 2 of the treaty on european union, which states that the union is founded on respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, remains valid. there are member states which are in breach of this provision. the commission is not only required to monitor the implementation of macroeconomic appropriations or food safety standards, but also the application of fundamental rights in the union. and talking about problems is the very essence of democracy. there should be no taboo subjects or uncomfortable questions that some would sweep under the carpet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for many communities in my country, especially those in rural areas, access to and successful use of european funds may be their only chance for development or their only chance for a better future. however, this parliament, together with the european commission, must also take account of the realities on the ground and the problems facing these localities. we must together ask the romanian government to take urgent measures to facilitate access to eu-funded programmes for rural communities. the introduction of simplified procedures, model projects and a national co-financing fund for communities that cannot afford this co-financing is very easy to do and even quick. after this year's local elections, all mayors, local councillors and county councillors must focus all their energy on accessing this funding. we cannot afford another budget year in which we lose european funds. moreover, we need to look for partners in the member states to access the commission's funds directly. thank you very much, madam president, and happy birthday to all the ladies and gentlemen!
that concludes the item.
i declare closed the 2015-2016 session of the european parliament.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, you have spoken, as have the other members, about this inequality and you have spoken about the european parliament. if the population is female-dominated in many of our countries, how do you explain that women don't vote for women?
in writing. international women's day is a recognition of the importance of women in the world. i think it is important that in practice there is an acceptance of gender equality in society. personally, i'd rather have the value recognized than the percentage imposed. anthropologically, women have leadership qualities, being good organizers, stress-resistant, persuasive, responsible. it takes a change of attitude. women have to be in solidarity, they are in the majority in many countries, and yet, many times, women are not voted in when they run. i believe in the need for a change in mindset among women, but also men. it's not necessarily the laws that have to manage family life, but the understanding. assuming values in society is the recipe for gender equality. and that's why i think education in this is very important. women must take responsibility for their entry into politics, because in a democratic state, politicians set public policies and laws that govern economic and social life.
blue-card question.– first of all, allow me to wish all our colleagues a beautiful life, a wonderful spring, lots of achievements, and health and happiness for this beautiful day, 8 march. let us wish the same things for all the women and girls of the world. but let me also ask you this: do you not think that women all need better protection, wherever they are, irrespective of their religion, ethnicity and so on and so forth? (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ we voted in the european parliament plenary on measures to prevent and control animal disease epidemics such as avian influenza or african swine fever, measures informally agreed with eu ministers in june 2015. the eu legislative proposal on animal-borne and potentially transmissible diseases to humans emphasises prevention and helps professionals in the field keep pace with scientific progress. this law accomplishes three important things. first, it links animal welfare and health and connects them to human health. this direct link, along with the emphasis on responsible antibiotic use, will help us fight the growing resistance to antimicrobials. secondly, it helps authorities and producers to focus more on the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. third, it combines some 40 legal documents into one legislative act.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this law, which will finally streamline the law on animal health, obliging all operators and animal keepers to adhere to the principle of good animal husbandry, as well as taking biosecurity measures to protect their animals. responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicines is also an obligation: member states are called upon to commit themselves to collecting relevant data on the actual use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals and to send such data to the commission in order to ensure more prudent use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals, thereby helping to reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance. the list of diseases covered by the law will be adopted in line with the parliament and council decision, and taking account of expert advice. all operators and animal keepers will be required to apply the principle of good animal husbandry under this law, as well as humane treatment to avoid pain, distress and suffering when disease control measures are taken.
in writing. ‒ animal health is a key part of the european food safety authority mandate. the concept of animal health covers not only animal diseases, but also the critical relationship between animal health, animal welfare and food safety. i have voted against the amendment that rejects the position of the council’s first reading on transmissible animal diseases.
in writing. ‒ on 6 may 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a single comprehensive animal health law that was supposed to replace the old and complicated animal health rules. the european parliament and the european council also reached a political agreement on the animal health proposal on 1 june 2015. i have voted against the amendment, which rejects the first reading position of the council.
in writing. the european union has become a space dominated by concern for the welfare of animals, both pet and wild, in recent decades. in line with this principle, the european institutions have in recent years sought to adapt existing legislation to the requirements in this area. a key aspect of this is ensuring animal health, in particular by preventing communicable diseases. the adoption of an 'animal health act' has become a necessity, especially when we think of wild animals that can be completely vulnerable to new diseases. at the same time, antibiotic treatment of sick animals may weaken their immunity. the incidence of animal diseases may also affect the human staff who work with them in one way or another, which amounts to 20 to 30 million people. another aspect of the legislation concerns the treatment of animals, which must avoid suffering, but also their controlled breeding and the protection of elite breeds. as regards pet animals, the registration of specialist breeders in a european database could prevent the spread of certain diseases. as this is an important document in this field, i support its adoption in its present form.
in writing. ‒ the european union's legislative proposal on transmissible animal diseases contains a number of measures to prevent and control outbreaks of animal diseases such as avian influenza or african swine fever. the fact that over 60 percent of human diseases come from animals makes this proposal of major importance. this proposal underlines the need for responsible use of antibiotics to combat the growing antimicrobial resistance in animals. in this regard, veterinarians will be required to draw attention to the interaction between animal health and welfare and antimicrobial resistance. the european commission will therefore monitor the use of antibiotics in the member states and has the ability to take urgent action in the event of epidemics that could seriously affect human health and agricultural production. in such cases, farmers' organisations and veterinary associations will be involved in the establishment of contingency plans. in addition, breeders and traders of pet animals are required to register in a database to avoid the situation where homeless or illegally traded animals transmit animal diseases. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposal on transmissible animal diseases.
in writing. the european union is facing a youth obesity phenomenon, with over 22 million young people and children being overweight as a result of excessive consumption of processed foods high in sugars, fats and other additives, and in addition, a sedentary lifestyle. the continuing decline in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk products among young people has led the commission to review and bring together the two separate schemes for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools. i believe that initiatives to promote healthy eating should not be limited to educational institutions. family and teachers are key factors that play an important role in promoting a balanced diet. the main objective of the new regulation is to convince young people that fruit and milk contribute to their health and healthy growth. on the other hand, to bring young people closer to nature, it is important that they know where these foods come from. in this context, i strongly support the promotion of regional and seasonal agricultural products, firstly because it supports local agricultural producers, but also because the actions contribute to the formation of healthy eating habits.
in writing. ‒ i consider the implementation of the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational institutions to be particularly important, as the target group of this project, children aged between 6 and 10 years, need to benefit from healthy and fresh food, which is important for their growth and development. for the good functioning of this project, it is extremely important to identify and analyse the needs and costs, from purchasing to supplying schools, so that each school, especially those in disadvantaged areas, receives the necessary quantity without waste. this whole system, from problem analysis to food selection to proper supplying of educational institutions, will lead the target population towards a healthy life by building a balanced diet from an early age. the implementation of this regulation aims at cooperation between member states to reduce childhood obesity and boost the immune system of children, with the help of nutrition experts and farmers. supplying disadvantaged regions with those with high production potential is an important step towards ensuring that children are raised in a healthy environment that is conducive to our future generations and a viable and strong population.
in writing. ‒ eu children should soon benefit from better-funded school milk, fruit and vegetable schemes, along with better lessons on healthy eating. i voted to combine the separate eu milk and fruit schemes and increase the annual budget of the new scheme by €20 million to €250 million per year. the annual funding for milk will be eur 100 million and that for fruit and vegetables eur 150 million. a healthy, balanced diet is the foundation for health. unfortunately, there has been a downward trend in the eu in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, but also milk, in schools. that's why it's very important to strengthen the fruit, vegetables and milk scheme in schools by increasing the budget and focusing more on healthy eating education. by voting for the budget, parliament also ensured the financial stability of the programme, preventing member states from unilaterally cutting the budget or changing the criteria for allocating eu funds between them.
in writing. ‒ i believe this report is absolutely necessary to ensure that the schemes, in future, will prioritise healthy, fresh, unprocessed and local foods as much as possible both in the main scheme and in accompanying educational measures and will also be visible as eu actions. concerning the list of products to be distributed, the text now makes clear, at the request of parliament, that the member states shall prioritise the distribution of fresh products over processed ones with a view to encouraging healthier eating habits among children. i believe the future of the school schemes is assured by this text. management will now be more efficient through a single, visible programme with the milk part operating in parallel with the fruit and vegetable strand. we will therefore be able to promote consumption of healthy, fresh foods by schoolchildren, helping them establish healthy eating habits – especially important when we are facing an epidemic of obesity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state aid scheme for the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments, as i believe it is essential that the eu and the member states are concerned about children's health. in the context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, the report is also important because it promotes healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. i appreciate the report because it allows member states to include other local, national and regional specialties such as honey, table olives and processed vegetables without added sugar, salt, fat, sweeteners or flavourings. the proposed six-year programme allows member states to provide children with a healthy diet on a permanent basis, alongside education on healthy nutrition. it is important that member states' programmes are monitored and that an evaluation of the results obtained is carried out.
in writing. ‒ the report reiterates that products distributed under this educational school program should not contain added sugar, salt, fat, artificial flavour enhancers or sweeteners, and should contribute to the physical and psychological wellbeing of children and combating child obesity. a trend has been identified in the consumption decline of fruit and vegetables and milk consumption among children, thus their distribution in all programs schools is important in combating child obesity and promotes healthy eating habits, this being the reason i have voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the measures presented in this report support the distribution of fruits, vegetables and milk in schools. they also represent a critical tool to reconnect children with agriculture and the variety of the eu’s agricultural products, more specifically those produced in their region, with the help of, for example, nutrition experts and farmers. i have voted for this report, which has as its objective the increased consumption of selected agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational establishments. this regulation, which applies from 1 august 2017, provides for aid of up to eur 250 million per school year per member state for the supply of fruit and vegetables and milk to schools, for accompanying educational measures and related costs. within the overall limit, the aid shall not exceed eur 150 million per school year for school fruit and vegetables and eur 100 million per school year for school milk. that aid shall be allocated to each member state taking into account criteria such as the number of children aged between six and 10 years or the degree of development of the regions of the member state concerned, so as to ensure that a higher aid is allocated to the less developed regions. member states shall choose the products to be distributed or to be included in accompanying educational measures on the basis of objective criteria such as health and environmental considerations, seasonality, variety and availability of local or regional products. member states may in particular encourage local or regional purchasing, organic products, short supply chains or environmental benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt the ep amendments to regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 on the call for the continuation and strengthening of the consumption of fruits, milk and vegetables among school children through an aid scheme to allow for a more proportionally targeted distribution of these goods based on the number of children aged 6-10 in a member state’s population. moreover, the member states that at present face monetary and logistical challenges in terms of accessing milk, vegetables and fruit will be greatly helped by the proposed aid scheme.
in writing. ‒ the way in which education systems in eu member states ensure the harmonious development of children is an expression of the degree to which we care about the future of our societies. one of the important components of this system is to ensure minimum nutritional intake during the school curriculum. scientific studies have therefore shown that there is a need to encourage the consumption of fruit (including bananas) and vegetables, but also of milk, i.e. healthy, fresh and as little processed food produced locally, including yoghurt and cheese. at the same time, the presence of artificial sweeteners and flavourings, sugars, salt and fats in the school diet should be minimised to avoid the incidence of obesity. they could be replaced by products such as honey, olives and olive oil. the european union supports the integrated approach to this school meal scheme in the member states with the help of the national authorities. to this end, significant financial resources are mobilised, amounting to approximately eur 250 000 for each national school year. the measure supports the development of europe's peripheral regions and can be evaluated after at least six years. the present report is a very important document for the future of our children and can be adopted in its present form.
in writing. ‒ originally envisaged under the common agricultural policy in the 1970s and aimed at supporting farmers and milk producers, the european 'milk in schools' programme, which was joined in 2009 by the 'fruit in schools' programme, now focuses on the objective of healthy eating, in the context of european union citizens facing problems such as obesity and diabetes. in the european union, 14 million children are overweight, increasing by 400,000 a year, while in romania, 13.7% of children aged 2-14 are obese and 8.8% are overweight. moreover, in recent years there has been a decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children. it is therefore important that the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments is maintained. to improve the management of the two programmes, the new regulation proposes to merge them and increase the budget by eur 20 million per year, bringing it to eur 250 million. in addition, for a fair distribution of funds, the number of children aged between 6 and 10 years and the level of development of the regions in each member state will be taken into account.
in writing. i voted for the report on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk to educational institutions, because it is absolutely necessary to educate our children in healthy eating habits. unfortunately, according to european statistics, more than 20 million children in europe are overweight today, and adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50 percent of the recommended daily allowance of fruits and vegetables. the report proposes to combine the milk and fruit schemes in the eu, with the annual budget of the new scheme to increase by €20 million to €250 million. in 2013-2014, around 10 million children in the eu benefited from the eu school fruit scheme and around 19 million benefited from the milk scheme.
it is important to have strict and clear accounting rules for ports in the trans-european transport network. it is important to have competition and transparency in port activities. we don't want a monopoly and we don't want contraband. we want this to end. the selection procedure for providers of port services shall be public and transparent, all interested parties shall have access to the procedures and the result shall be made public. this is also very important for romania, where we have ports in braila, constanta, galați, sulina, all of which are included in the ten-t network. so we want transparency, publicity, no smuggling, no monopoly and we want strict and very clear accounting rules and also very clear procedural rules.
in writing. ‒ europe is one of the most densely populated port regions in the world, and port activities directly contribute to employment, foreign investment and gdp growth. ports account for up to 3 million jobs in the 22 maritime states and are a major source of tax revenue for local, regional or national governments. all this is concrete evidence that shipping makes a significant direct and indirect contribution to job creation in the eu. a coherent shipping policy is therefore needed, as it is of particular importance for the eu's economic development. at the same time, they consider that efficient port services are essential for the performance of maritime ports in the trans-european transport network ten-t. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the ten-t needs to be made more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
in writing. ‒ it is very important to make the ten-t more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports and help them cope with changing transport and logistics requirements. port services and operations need to be modernised and framework conditions for attracting investment in ports need to be created. it is necessary that all port users are informed and have the possibility to lodge a complaint with an independent body. existing bodies can fulfil the role of such a body without additional bureaucratic tasks. the port management body must also have the autonomy to act in accordance with its economic strategy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which clarifies the scope and aim of the port services regulation, setting a framework that should boost the efficiency and strengthen competitiveness of maritime ports in the trans-european transport network. it also takes into account the specific situation of ports located in outermost regions. i strongly support it as it provides that social and labour rules will not be affected by the regulation and that port workers should receive adequate training about their working conditions. it also invites the eu-level sectoral social dialogue committee for ports to develop guidelines regarding training requirements to prevent accidents and ensure the highest level of safety and health for port workers. furthermore, the report secures the right to strike, stating that industrial action does not constitute grounds for taking emergency measures (such as direct awards). through this report, we managed to preserve and increase social standards in the eu regulation and we have stopped further liberalisation of the sector.
in writing. ‒ i think it is an important report for the situation of ports in europe. and romania has ports and i think we need to improve the way we operate. the quality and efficiency of port activity influences economic activity because maritime and inland waterway transport is of high importance. the report also took into account the views of the port authorities and the trade unions, even if the social partners were not completely satisfied. i voted for the report in the hope that the dialogue that will follow with the commission and council representatives will lead to a regulation that is optimal for the parties involved. it is necessary to ensure fairness and fair competition for smaller ports and not to exercise market dominance or monopoly positions. i appreciate that the report takes a stand against casual labour and in favour of better training and safety conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that supports the commission proposal regarding the creation of a framework that will improve the performance of ports through transport and logistics requirements. the report also calls for modernisation and transparency of services, port operations and the creation of the necessary conditions in order to attract investment in ports.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network through the creation of a framework which should improve the performance of ports and help them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. romania has two core network corridors in this programme: the orient/east-med corridor and the rhine-danube corridor. the benefits of the ten-t core network through its corridors are to contribute to european cohesion and strengthen the internal market, this being the reason i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports applies to all maritime ports in the trans-european transport network. ports can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industries on world markets, while increasing value added and creating jobs in all eu coastal regions. in order to address the challenges facing the maritime transport sector, such as inefficiencies in the logistics chain and sustainable transport, it is essential that the measures set out in the commission communication 'ports: an engine for economic growth' be implemented in parallel with this regulation. the complexity of administrative customs procedures, resulting in delays in ports, is a major obstacle to the competitiveness of short sea shipping and to the efficiency of union ports.
in writing. ‒ european ports are some of the most important components of shipping on our continent. as ports of communication to other parts of the world, they must receive increased attention from the eu institutions. the adoption of framework regulations to increase the efficiency and strengthen the competitiveness of maritime ports within the trans-european transport network was imperative. the specific situation of ports located in marginal areas must also be taken into account. the process of liberalisation of services on the european market could have a negative impact on port activity, in particular by the loss of jobs. therefore, certain social regulations need to be respected in order to ensure that port workers have the necessary working conditions and training, as well as a high level of safety at work and a decent state of health. at the same time, the rights of these workers, including the right to strike, must be respected. another aspect concerns ensuring financial transparency in order to ensure fair competition and to prevent tariff abuse. when the situation so requires, states should be able to invest in the development of port infrastructure without this being considered as state aid. this document is necessary and should be adopted without delay.
in writing. i voted for the report on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports which aims to increase efficiency and reduce costs for services provided in eu maritime ports. the rapporteur believes that abusive pricing and market distortions, as well as encouraging trade, can be achieved through greater transparency in the setting of charges for the use of port services and infrastructure, as well as in public funding for ports. the adoption of this report by the ep does not affect national regulations on labour and social protection in ports.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way and are of fundamental importance as they are used to assess national competitiveness. they are also essential instruments for achieving the objective of price stability. the current iacp rules date from 1995 and are not adapted to new realities, taking into account recent developments in consumer price statistics. this resolution provides for a control on the impact of fiscal changes in inflation by a separately calculated price index, as well as the establishment of price indices for housing and in particular for owner-occupied housing. this is an important step towards improving the relevance and comparability of hicps and would also allow for the identification of real estate bubbles at an early stage. the report also provides the legal framework for the implementation of rapid hicp estimates, which are essential for monetary policy in the euro area. moreover, it advocates the launch of pilot studies to strengthen the progressive harmonisation of consumer price indices by assessing the feasibility of using additional basic information or applying new approaches, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european system of central banks (escb) is one of the main drivers of our economy, without which the value system could not function. thus, its use of harmonised indices of consumer prices helps to harmonise inflation in the member states of the european union. the introduction of harmonised indices of consumer prices at a constant value of tax rates (hicp-ct) will improve the european economic system by creating a better possibility of analysis and control. i encourage member states to contribute to the start of pilot studies, the verification of current information and the design of new methodological approaches, in order to achieve a progressive strengthening of consumer price indices. they also support the idea of improving europe's economy by implementing ecoicop (european classification of individual consumption according to purpose) and thus gaining a broader view of current and future problems, statistics, visions, possibilities and ambitions. the proposed new system will establish a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices. member states will thus commit themselves to submit monthly provisional information on inflation and estimates of these indices.
in writing. ‒ this regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national level. the hicp is a measure of inflation used, inter alia, as a valuable input on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents, interest rates and therefore forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore essential that those statistics are objective, unbiased and allow comparisons between all member states and all product categories. harmonised indices of consumer prices are an important tool for analysing the causes of inflation and for forecasting the impact of future fiscal changes on inflation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the inclusion of our main achievement, which is to ensure sufficient implementation power for the commission to make the statistical methodology evolve on hicp (the council sought to strengthen the national level during the trilogue negotiations) and to better integrate into hicp indices both owner-occupied housing indices and house-price indices, which are crucial in addressing macroeconomic imbalances in the eu. flawed statistics were partly responsible for the financial crisis in 2008. this new legislation improves the quality of indices of consumer prices which are important to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it improves the quality of indices of consumer prices which are very important in the rectification of macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ this report presents a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi) at union, national and sub-national level. the hicp measures consumer price inflation in the euro area. i voted for this report that will bring a revision of the above-mentioned framework in order to ensure maximum compatibility for the main users of the hicp. i consider it worth mentioning that the hicp is also used in assessing whether a country is ready to join the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this regulation is to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and the house price index (hpi) at union and national level. high-quality and comparable price statistics are essential for union policy-makers, researchers and all european citizens. the commission and the european central bank (ecb) use the dissemination of the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) to assess price stability in the member states. by 31 december 2018, the commission will have to prepare a report addressing the appropriateness of the ooh price index (owner-occupied housing price index) for inclusion in the hicp coverage. depending on the results of the report, the commission shall, if appropriate, within a reasonable timeframe, submit a proposal to amend this regulation as regards the integration of the ooh price index into the hicp coverage.
in writing. ‒ at national, sub-national, and eu levels, the commission’s proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi). the hicp provides a measure of inflation used as valuable data for deflating economic values and shapes the basis for economic and monetary policy. therefore, it is important that statistics are objectively comparable across all product areas and member states. for the power of the commission to alter elements with delegated acts, two issues are excluded and decided directly in the regulation. first is the determination of the sub-indices of the hicp, secondly the selection of sub-indices. furthermore, since early conditional information on inflation is crucial for the conduct of monetary policy, euro member states must provide hicp flash estimates monthly. the breakdown of the estimates of the hicp, owner-occupied housing (ooh) price index and the hpi must also be adopted by means of implementing acts. lastly, with the influential pilot studies, the commission shall appropriately contribute to their financing and report to the european parliament and the council assessing the main findings of the studies. for these reasons, i have voted for this regulation.
in writing. the variation in prices for the various products and services on the european market is an element of uncertainty for consumers in the member states. the existence of significant differences, both between different countries and between different regions, contributes to the maintenance of important disparities at european level, creating the conditions for unfair discrimination between consumers. to counter these problems, the commission has developed a single statistical methodology, which can now be embodied in the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps). these indicators aim at establishing uniform treatment of similar product groups in the member states in order to reduce the possibility of interpretation or infringement of the rules, which contributed to the 2008 crisis. the treatment also concerns the real estate index field, which represents a significant part of the european economy, but does not concern areas of public interest such as education, health etc. i believe that supporting this document and applying it as soon as possible will help to reduce the development gaps that exist at union level. that is why i support its adoption in its present form.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the union's financial interests must be a central element of the eu's political agenda. both the european union and the member states must protect financial interests against crimes that cause significant financial damage. unfortunately, corruption affects all member states and costs the eu economy around €120 billion. the effects of corruption are also felt in the diminished trust of citizens in european institutions and democratic processes. i welcome the commission's implementation of a new anti-fraud policy, in line with the principle of sound financial management and with the aim of ensuring adequate protection of the eu's financial interests, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ public spending and the protection of the eu's financial interests must be key elements of the eu's policy of increasing citizens' confidence by ensuring the fair, efficient and effective use of their money. corruption affects all member states and costs the eu economy around €120 billion a year. i voted for the european executive to take full responsibility for recovering unduly paid funds from the eu budget, as well as for improving the collection of own resources and establishing uniform reporting principles in all member states to collect adequate, comparable and accurate data. increasing irregularities have been detected through the commission's ex-ante and ex-post controls and therefore it is necessary to further promote such controls. the competent authorities in the member states must also improve controls and use all available information to avoid errors and irregular payments related to the use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ concerning the annual report 2014 on the protection of the eu’s financial interests, i believe that the methodology for calculating error rates must be harmonised at eu and member state level and that the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) regulation should be adopted swiftly. moreover, i would like to welcome the commission’s commitment to publish an eu anti-corruption report biannually. i support the call on the commission to swiftly promote legislation on the minimum level of protection for whistle-blowers in the eu, and i urge the commission to maintain its strict policy on interruption and suspension of payments in accordance with the relevant legal basis. i believe that, through this report, the goal of expressing a clearer and fair picture of the main challenges in the protection of the financial interests in the eu was accomplished.
in writing. ‒ the report is very important if we think about the level of fraud and the effects of fraud on citizens. fraud leads to corruption and corruption leads to polarization of society. i appreciate that the report also states that many of the errors found by olaf are not fraudulent and therefore i believe that there is a need for prevention, simplification and transparency in the spending of money. i voted for the report even though i do not believe that the creation of new institutions solves the problem, just as i do not agree that for the mistakes of national institutions or legal entities, citizens should be sanctioned by suspending or interrupting payments to european funds. i appreciate that the report makes reference to simplification of procedures, but the commission must also check over-regulation at national level.
in writing. ‒ there are several points that should be highlighted. fraud and errors are two different things; both must be fought and not confused. the methods for calculating error rates at the european and member state level should be harmonised. prevention is important and should involve constant training and support for staff responsible.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has the responsibility of protecting the european union’s financial interests by investigating fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities. i voted for this annual report that emphasises olaf’s role and presents the areas that need improving.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which i also supervised as a shadow rapporteur, because i believe that the problem of fraud and corruption affects all eu member states, not just romania. it is clear that fighting fraud and ensuring a transparent environment ensures that organised crime is reduced and citizens' trust in public institutions is increased, while protecting the eu's financial interests by increasing its competitiveness on the world market. in this respect, as the document suggests, the european commission, together with olaf and the member states, must improve controls at customs level, but also at the level of public institutions empowered to obtain and spend european funds in the member states. also, budgeting on the basis of performance rather than on the basis of a formalistic evaluation of programmes will allow and create a favourable framework for the economic development of each member state.
in writing. the fight against fraud involving european money has become one of the european union's priorities in recent years. in this way, the efforts of taxpayers in each member state are protected and it is ensured that funds reach the areas that really need them and not the pockets of people who are only looking to get rich easily with public money. the commission's annual report on budgetary control for 2014 shows a total of eur 3,24 billion affected by irregularities. in total, the amount of fraud increased by 36% compared to 2013, while the number of irregularities increased by 48%, thus significantly. the main sector affected is rural development, which is precisely where the need for funding is greatest. the european parliament supports the commission's initiative to publish a biannual report on the fight against corruption at eu level and the activities of civil society in this regard, as well as the suspension of payments where deemed necessary. however, this latter measure should not affect the actual development of those sectors. the eu's european anti-fraud office (olaf) should also not have immunity from scrutiny by national structures, in order to avoid systemic flaws. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the financial protection of the european union highlights that financial irregularities reported in 2014 increased by 36% compared to 2013, and that corruption affects all member states. each year, the european union economy suffers costs of around €120 billion caused by corruption. moreover, corruption is a phenomenon with extremely negative effects, damaging the image of institutions and participating in the financing of organised crime or terrorist actions in europe. in this regard, further strengthening of the role of the european anti-fraud office is needed, as well as other actions such as the establishment of uniform principles for reporting fraudulent or non-fraudulent irregularities at member state level, in order to have a real picture of the situation in the european union, but also to be able to find solutions to these problems. i also believe that there is a need for more transparency in the management of european funds. i appreciate that the report i voted for stresses the need to strengthen the role of the commission by introducing control and monitoring activities, through action plans and warning letters, and by providing technical assistance to member states by the commission.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests combating fraud, which also introduces the suggestions of the international trade commission (inta). the inta suggestions focus on anti-fraud measures that should be introduced into eu trade policy. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the exemption from the anti-dumping duty on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the people's republic of china. in the same text, inta also welcomes the key role played by the eu's macro-financial assistance programme in promoting reforms in the countries that are the eu's closest trading partners, one of its aims being to fight corruption and fraud in the beneficiary countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in the work of the european parliament. i'm against favoring one gender over another. qualification, not gender, should be the deciding factor in an individual's profession. i also oppose the idea of a permanent gender mainstreaming rapporteur who examines the work of all committees. this would be an additional element that would add to the administrative burden without any effect. on the other hand, they advocate maintaining the practice of gender mainstreaming, which has been shown to have beneficial effects. gender equality should be guaranteed through equal opportunities. we could achieve our goal of achieving gender equality through other avenues, for example, by promoting education for both women and men and by eradicating gender discrimination. i want to stress that i support gender equality, but i do not think that this report is a step forward in this regard.
in writing. ‒ gender mainstreaming is essential in the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes with the aim of promoting equality between women and men and combating discrimination. this includes both mainstreaming a gender perspective in the content of the different policies and addressing the issue of the representation of women and men in those policies. balanced representation of women and men and the existence of gender-sensitive content should be taken into account at all stages of the policy-making process. even though laws treat women and men equally, women still do not have equal access to and control over resources and goods, and gender mainstreaming is an essential element of an appropriate gender equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ i totally support this resolution, which stresses for the need for gender mainstreaming amendments, gender impact assessment and gender budgeting in order to integrate a gender perspective in all policy areas. it is fundamental that we call on the commission to make gender impact assessments on new legislative or policy proposals in order to guarantee that the eu is upholding women’s rights. as female representation in key decision-making positions at political and administrative level – including political groups in parliament – remains low, i support the proposals to increase gender equality at staff level. on 8 march, i therefore support the call on parliament, its institutional partners and ngos to closely work together with a view to making gender mainstreaming a continuous process, and integrate gender equality at all levels, in all areas and into all stages of policy-making.
in writing. ‒ the european union must guarantee equal opportunities and treatment for men and women. the european parliament and its institutional partners should step up their efforts to mainstream gender equality at all levels, in all areas and at every stage of the policy-making process.
in writing. ‒ even though i support article 23 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i voted against this report for the sole reason that i have not found any gender discrimination in parliament, therefore i consider this report useless.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that should integrate a gender perspective in the content of different policies, and should address the issue of representation of women and men in the given policy area. gender mainstreaming has been embraced internationally as a strategy towards achieving gender equality.
in writing. ‒ to this day, even though gender equality is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right, structural gender inequality persists to exist in our society. sadly, the report highlights that activities of bodies responsible for gender mainstreaming in the european parliament and with other institutions are not yet effectively coordinated or integrated and that 2009 gender balance targets at senior and middle management level have still not been met. i voted in favour of this report because integration of a gendered perspective is a necessary component of all areas of policy-making and a prerequisite for creating equal opportunities for women and men. the european parliament should therefore continue to work on embracing and implementing gender mainstreaming in all aspects of its work. the report is a necessary step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mainstreaming of gender in the work of the european parliament, as the achievement of gender equality is essential for the protection of human rights, the functioning of democracy and social inclusion. at present, the presence of women in key decision-making positions at administrative and political level, as well as in political groups in the european parliament, remains low. within the european parliament, the committee on human rights and gender equality is the central body responsible for promoting and mainstreaming gender equality in the political and legislative processes of the european parliament. however, all committees should be actively involved in this process and, to this end, should adopt their own action plan. in this regard, the establishment of a permanent rapporteur on gender mainstreaming is particularly important for the achievement of gender mainstreaming objectives. moreover, the action should not be limited to the european parliament. in this respect, i believe that there should be a continuous dialogue with national parliaments to ensure an exchange of views and practices in order to promote the integration of the gender perspective into the - better coordinated - work of the european legislative forums.
in writing. ‒ the wave of refugees coming to europe is also creating problems for the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. it is indeed a difficult and at the same time problematic situation and their rights must be respected without any doubt. on the other hand, respect for the rights and freedoms of individuals, regardless of gender, is an essential condition of a state governed by the rule of law. to mention only women as benefiting from ill-treatment is discrimination. the preferential treatment discussed in this report concerns only refugee girls, but not refugee boys. in view of the recent incidents in the calais refugee camp where boys aged 14-16 were raped, i believe that boys should also have the right to equal protection. at the same time, the report provides facilities for the lgbti community, but does not propose facilities for christians persecuted by muslims in the camps. this fact needs to be foreseen. in view of the arguments mentioned above, and the fact that most of the measures mentioned in the report imply burdens for the camp volunteers and local leaders, i am against this report.
in writing. ‒ a reform of eu migration and asylum policies and procedures must include gender-sensitive measures to ensure the safety of women seeking asylum, many of whom travel with young children, and other dependants. this report highlights the particularly vulnerable situation of refugee women in the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. member states should guarantee the right to require that interviewees and interpreters be women, to provide appropriate training to interviewees and interpreters in the field of sexual violence, trauma, to provide trauma counselling to women who have suffered gender-based violence, to provide information on asylum procedures and the specific rights of women seeking asylum, to provide childcare during asylum checks and interviews, to inform women about their right to lodge asylum applications independently of their partner and to have a legal status independent of their husbands.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, about 1 million people crossed the mediterranean. women and children account around 35% of refugees. in january 2016, women accounted for 55%. i strongly believe we need to highlight the exceptionally vulnerable situation of women asylum seekers and refugees in the european union. they have fled persecution in their home countries only to undertake a perilous journey in order to reach a place of safety. on arrival at reception centres these already vulnerable women, who may be victims of sexual violence, trafficking or other violent crimes, face additional barriers which further increases their already vulnerable positions. i therefore support the call for gender sensitive asylum procedure through a number of measures, such as gender-specific training for staff, gender-segregated sleeping and sanitation facilities, the right to request female interviewers and interpreters, access to gender-sensitive health services including prenatal and postnatal care.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that calls for gender sensitive asylum procedures through a number of measures. the eu has played an important role in highlighting the issue of gender equality and placed it at the heart of the values on which european union is based. the report calls for support for vulnerable women refugees and asylum seekers who may be victims of sexual violence, trafficking or other violent crimes, or discrimination, and to ensure the women’s needs throughout the asylum process.
in writing. ‒ women refugees have shown great strength to risk everything and flee their war-torn home country, cross the seas in dreadful conditions facing physical assault, abuse and violence and look now for protection in the eu. during the asylum process, on european soil, they are still exposed to gender-based harm and remain a particularly vulnerable category. europe needs to stand together and give a humanitarian response, and as policy makers we need to address their basic social, medical and economic needs. it is the week we celebrate international women’s day; following our european values, i hereby support and respect the right of these women, who have been through enough already, to seek asylum in proper conditions.
in writing. ‒ half of the world's refugee population in 2014 were represented by women and girls. the european parliament was the first international body to acknowledge the need for a gender-sensitive interpretation of the refugee convention, in a resolution of 13 april 1984. i have voted for this report that reiterates the need to guarantee a consistent and gender-sensitive treatment for women seeking protection in europe.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, half of the world’s refugee population were women and girls. laws and policies, despite the establishment of the common european asylum system (ceas), differ significantly across member states. additionally, there continues to be a discernible gap in the protection of women seeking asylum in the eu. as a result, a new all-inclusive set of eu-wide gender guidelines should be adopted as part of wider reforms to migration and asylum policy. the acts making up the ceas have so far not assured consistent and gender-sensitive treatment for women seeking asylum. although there is currently legislation and policy designed in a gender-sensitive way, significant shortcomings persist. while some policies are gender-sensitive, this does not always ensure their effective implementation. this policy must be sensitive and responsive to women’s experiences at every stage. women asylum seekers and refugees must be given a greater voice for policy makers to comprehend how gendered relations of power yield forced displacement and specific gendered needs. unequal gender relations have intensified during this humanitarian crisis. however, this time also allows for the possibility to harmonise best practice in the treatment of women asylum seekers. for these reasons, i have voted in favour of the above proposal.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, let me start by saying that we discussed this issue – the situation in syria and our work to try and put an end to the war – on 19 january, so less than two months ago. many different things have happened since then so i would like to thank you for this debate and for the opportunity that this offers us all to check and double check the steps taken, the sense of direction and also the difficulties we still have ahead of us. first of all let me remind us all again what has happened in this one and a half months. first of all we had the london conference on syria. i start with this because this was not only a pledging conference where the european union and the member states represented two-thirds of the contributions to support syrians inside syria and in the neighbouring countries, but this was also a way of showing the unity of the international community and solidarity and a sense of hope for the syrians in their own country. we have pledged eur 3 billion in support for the refugees and the internally displaced people inside syria and for the humanitarian aid. i will go back to the role of the humanitarian aid in a moment from a political and also from a security point of view, but we also prepared two packages, two compacts as we call them, one for jordan and one for lebanon, which comprise not only financial support, but also some measures that can support these countries in the effort of integrating syrian refugees into the host communities, giving children education, giving young women and men job opportunities, and also making it sustainable for the communities in jordan and in lebanon to sustain this effort in the mid-term period. the second thing that has happened since 19 january is that the first round of talks among syrians took place in geneva – almost immediately suspended because of clear problems that were coming up in the first talks that staffan de mistura was holding at the time – and a subsequent meeting of the international support group in munich. here we met at length for many hours together with john kerry, lavrov and all the other foreign ministers represented there from some 20 countries, the european union and the arab league, all around the table, trying to check exactly whether the suspension of the talks in geneva was due to difficulties that were impossible to overcome – not only locally, internally, nationally, among the syrians but also in the bigger regional framework – or if it would be possible, through the international support group, to move forward and revitalise a process in which all of us have invested so much in the last months. out of this meeting in munich we established two task forces: one on the modalities of the cessation of hostilities, co-chaired by the us and russia, these being the two actors that needed to coordinate the most, especially in military coordination, to identify in concrete terms the maps, the groupings and the areas for the entry into force of the ceasefire or the cessation of hostilities. and a task force on humanitarian aid, because we identified very clearly the need to have a second round of talks in geneva, which staffan de mistura has now announced for tomorrow and the coming days, to make sure that these talks happen with a completely different, or very substantially different, atmosphere on the ground, rather than the one that we experienced on the previous occasion, meaning to try and reduce the gap between syrians talking in geneva about a very difficult political transition and process, while on the ground syrians are dying in besieged areas and cities with no access to humanitarian aid. so we know that delivering in an effective way humanitarian aid, food and medicines to the syrians inside syria would give credibility. it would create conditions for a credible process in geneva and would also open up some channels for political discussions among different parties. we then has, as you know, the task force on cessation of hostilities producing very advanced work – the humanitarian task force as well, i will come back with details in a moment – and the adoption of un security council resolution 2268 on cessation of hostilities that started on 29 february. since then, i have to say – not only myself but also the un special envoy staffan de mistura and the two co-chairs of the taskforce, the us and russia – that the cessation of hostilities, the ceasefire, is substantially holding even if we are seeing several breaches throughout syria, in different parts of syria. however, the overall assessment is that the ceasefire is holding and that the situation on the ground for this whole week has been significantly improved compared to all the previous weeks of the conflict. that is to say that this is probably the first time in five years of conflict that we see in many parts of syria no major armed intervention even if, as i said, breaches are happening continuously but with an intensity and a magnitude that is definitely on a different scale from in the past. on the humanitarian task force: we have managed in these weeks to deliver aid through 180 trucks to 150 000 syrians inside syria in different besieged areas and we are working – the eu in particular and together with the un – i will come back to that as i said, to reach areas further beyond the ones we have managed to reach so far. as i said, staffan de mistura has announced that talks will restart from tomorrow onwards. we do not expect this to be an easy process, on the contrary, but the fact that we managed to somehow recreate, or create rather, the conditions for the talks to be taking place is definitely good. i met riad hijab in paris a few days ago and we discussed at length not the conditions that anyone places on going back to geneva but how the international community, the regional actors and the participants to the talks managed to create the conditions for the talks to be significant and substantial. and let me say that one strong message that we, all of the european union, together with the rest of the international community but here i talk for the european union, are passing on united is to encourage all the parties, starting from the regime obviously but also the opposition, not only to go to geneva and take part in the talks but also to do this in a spirit of engagement and compromise. obviously we are also working as the european union to support the opposition in this very difficult task of entering these difficult negotiations. this is the first time after five years of war that we have this combination of cessation of hostilities holding overall, even if with significant breaches but holding overall, and humanitarian aid being delivered in besieged areas. so this is indeed not creating a rosy picture from one day to the next or from one week to the next, but there are some steps that are finally going in the right direction. one of these is the coordination that i mentioned before that the us and russia have developed, especially on the military-to-military level, a close coordination with regard to first the establishment and then the monitoring of the ceasefire, and the work to defuse tensions that could endanger this very fragile truce. this is why i believe that those who talk about a new cold war definitely need a reality check when it comes to this level of coordination and messaging. now, the role of the european union. the european union is part of both the task forces, with different roles. on the ceasefire, on the cessation of hostilities task force we have a presence, together with other countries or organisations that are part of the international support group. we have our military experts present there and we are also working out ways in which we can contribute to monitoring the cessation of hostilities, together with other friends. on the humanitarian assistance task force our role is definitely a much bigger, relevant one, not because we are the ones who are the good ones and not the ones that get implicated in military things, but simply because in specific terms, the role of the european union in syria has not been – this was a political decision and i think it was right – it has not been and it is not a military player on the ground in syria. some member states are, but nonetheless, the leading role here is for the two main countries that have a military presence and activity, knowledge and control of the military activities that can be done, leading to negotiations on the establishment of cessation of hostilities. this does not mean, as i said, that we are not part also of this very crucial work with our active presence there and that, as i said, might increase in future days. on humanitarian assistance: there is here a very strong link between humanitarian aid and the political process that needs to restart. the last time we met, i remember that many of you mentioned the need for a marshall plan for syria. if we consider the numbers, the money we are putting into this inside syria, in the neighbouring countries and elsewhere, i can say that the marshall plan has already started in a very significant way. the humanitarian task force in which, as i said, we have a leading role has already met four times and, as i said, has succeeded in delivering 180 trucks of aid to seven besieged areas and we reached out to more than 150 000 syrians in cities like madaya, mouadimiya, al-sham, kafr batna, foua, kafraya, zabadani and deir ezzor. this is not an exhaustive list. on the contrary, we are working on further cities all over syria that need to be reached – and could be reached – in terms of priorities in the coming days and weeks. the plan is to deliver assistance to more than 1.7 million syrians inside syria during the first quarter of this year, so in the next couple of months. to provide direct help for the humanitarian deliveries and work hand in hand with the un agencies on the ground we have reactivated our echo office in damascus. among international actors, let me say that the european union is probably the only one that is considered trustworthy by all sides – inside syria and in the region. somehow we have privileged access to many of the interlocutors that then have to work on the steps that are needed to allow humanitarian aid inside the difficult-to-reach areas. our major role on humanitarian aid gives us also a major political role to play and we are doing this. we are helping to create windows of trust between different parties in the conflict. our role is to open wide such windows for meaningful and comprehensive negotiations towards a political transition. we have to keep in mind, even with these positive steps that have taken place in recent weeks, that a new escalation might still happen anytime. the regional situation remains very tense. every day we see news that is extremely worrying – even this morning – and that the proxy war among regional and international powers could still turn into a direct war. this is something we must always keep in mind all through our work, keeping the hope that moves are going forwards on the diplomatic track, on humanitarian assistance and also on the work on the cessation of hostilities and the monitoring of the ceasefire; keeping in mind the risk that this could still degenerate and go backwards if we do not show consistency and if we do not encourage enough the players on the ground – the military groups, the political actors – to engage, the regime first and foremost, to engage in meaningful political process. we have had talks. i have had direct talks in recent days with all our partners, friends, interlocutors – not friends – both inside syria and outside syria in the region, to pass on the same message: to engage in the political process, to allow humanitarian access to improve and to work significantly to have the cessation of hostilities hold and improve day by day. just yesterday, we discussed this with our turkish partners and, if you look at the communiqué that came out of the council yesterday night, you will also find a reference to the need to work together – turkey and the european union – to improve humanitarian conditions in more and more areas inside syria. this is a common commitment we discussed with the turkish yesterday. everyone must do their best at this time. we have opened a window – a very small one – and we have to make sure that it does not close but that it opens further on the three levels – humanitarian, military ceasefire and the political one. let me take this opportunity here to thank staffan de mistura for the excellent coordination work that he is doing. we are in daily contact and the way in which we are working together with the united nations in all these three aspects is really, i think, an example for our work also in other fields. i think we have seen that diplomacy can work in recent experiences last year. we know that daesh can be defeated and that it can be defeated only through a process that puts an end to the war in syria and guarantees a transition in damascus. we know that the war inside syria can be over and forces can merge to fight terrorism – daesh and al-nusra – in the country. we have today the first steps in the right direction which are the result of the very determined – i would say stubborn – work we have done, coordinated with many others, starting with the usa. after five years of war diplomacy, including european diplomacy, is starting to bring some first results that, as i said, could turn back at any single moment if we do not have all the actors pushing in the same direction with the same stubbornness we have shown in recent months. we need to continue to build on this to try to have a new syria. most likely the one that has been destroyed in five years of war will not come back with all its beauties, but maybe we can allow the syrians to build their country again beyond ethnicity, religion or political creed, to be united, democratic, non—sectarian, not governed by the same men who presided over so many years of civil war, but with an inclusive governance guaranteeing all different syrians to be part of the same country, with no space in it for daesh and al-nusra which have nothing to do with the history of the country and will have nothing to do with its future if we manage to work well together as we have done in recent weeks.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, i am pleased to hear you stress that the conflict has already lasted five years. yes, during that long period, the syrians had little reason for hope. when they took to the streets five years ago, it wasn't what they expected. so that's why i think the ceasefire that came into effect on february 27 is a very important element, and it is - again, i agree with you - because it allows access to humanitarian aid that the syrian people desperately need. i remember we talked about this recently when you came before our committee. the ceasefire is also important because it is a beacon of hope which must be held fast in this political perspective. the ceasefire is not perfect, but it exists. it is generally respected, and it is up to us to seize this opportunity to turn it into a credible political transition. "credible political transition" does not mean, of course, "immediate elections" as al-assad or putin have suggested. this is unacceptable. we must concentrate our efforts on the peace process, and only when stability has been fully restored can elections be held.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, first please allow me to congratulate the vice-president/high representative for launching this fundamentally important initiative and for the very wise way in which to coordinate us, as europe, with other major international and regional actors in order to try to fix this long-lasting conflict. the last ten days have been the quietest for most syrians in the last five years, but this could help to build up a momentum behind the peace talks in this war-torn country and allow the international talks set to start tomorrow to resume soon. there is no real alternative but the political solution and we need a strong political will and commitment to make it. a political solution in syria will allow the international community to concentrate on what is most important: fighting daesh and all other terrorist groups and stopping them from spreading and bringing more war and suffering to the entire region. finding a solution for syria will allow syrians to stay in their homes and not further risk their lives in coming to europe or elsewhere. the participation of the moderate syrian opposition in the international talks is essential and should be guaranteed. therefore we condemn any actions against moderate syrian opposition forces and against the town of aleppo that could undermine the ceasefire and equally the international talks. the reduction in violence also allowed the dispatch of humanitarian aid and convoys to the population in need. nevertheless, this has to continue and the syrian government has to cooperate and further facilitate the aid. it goes without saying that unless the talks bring results the humanitarian crisis will continue. the boundaries between these various conflicts in syria are often vague and belong to different actors. it is so important for all sides, including turkey and russia, to stick to un resolution 2254. objectives: combating terrorist groups and allowing a solution for syria.
blue-card question.– as you mentioned the atrocities which took place in syria and iraq, do you not think that the european union – through its two members of the security council, the uk and france – should call for an international criminal tribunal for syria and iraq to be set up in order to hold the leaders of daesh accountable, in the near future, for their atrocities and genocide, especially against national minorities like the azeris and christians?
mr president, madam high representative, the civil war in syria has many implications for the eu: the refugee crisis, terrorism, negative impact on the regional situation, complicating relations with russia, potential for escalation. the two recent ceasefire agreements have not yet been able to completely stop the fighting between the regime and the opposition and between the various factions forming that opposition. that is so primarily because there is no agreement among the intervening powers, both regional and extra-regional, on the future of the assad regime and the ensuing betting on rival factions. the solution, exclusively political, would have to be reached after a real ceasefire which would be motivated by humanitarian intervention to help the population caught in the fighting. in sum: from simple to complex and from humanitarian through the military to the political level seems to be the logical path, promising eventually a solution to this complicated and important conflict on our doorstep.
while the syrian conflict has brought untold suffering, the near-total destruction of a country, and the displacement of millions of people, it seems to be getting harder and harder to end the war. to outsiders, it seems that we are not only getting closer to a solution, but further and further away from peace. for if one side - if it can be put that way - gains military superiority, foreign supporters of the losing side will immediately arrive and give new impetus to the fighting. all we see here in europe is that everyone is fighting terrorism in syria, and people are fleeing, losing hope that they will ever be able to rebuild their country. and if that hope is lost, it won't matter who wins because there won't be a population. and on international women's day, please allow us to join our wives, our daughters, the ladies here, to salute the women who are today armed to defend their families and their homeland somewhere near the syrian border.
the european commission has stated on numerous occasions that immigration has been placed at the heart of its priorities, but it has focused in particular on the principle of solidarity as set out in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the union, offering only truly concrete proposals to this end. this creates an imbalance in the european action plan and puts the security of citizens and the european space in the background. it is imperative that the commission focuses on establishing a migration policy, developing a robust common policy, revising the dublin regulation and the blue paper. these must be the highest priorities. they are listed at every meeting of european leaders, but they continue to exist only on a utopian level. we must act! too little has been done in this direction and the effects of this hesitation have been felt strongly by all of us, but paradoxically this lethargy, this lack of a vision of the big picture, coupled with a lack of concrete action, continues to be a pressing reality for the whole of europe.
in writing. the mediterranean migration crisis has brought immediate needs to the fore, but at the same time it has also highlighted many of the structural limitations of eu migration policy and the instruments at its disposal. the decisive fight against irregular migration, smugglers and traffickers of migrants, and the securing of europe's external borders, must be combined with a sustainable common asylum policy and a strong european policy on legal migration. clearly, this requires more coherence across sectors such as development cooperation, trade, employment, foreign affairs and home affairs. the eu must continue to provide protection for people in need. migrants who have been legally accepted in member states should not face reluctance and obstacles they should receive as much assistance as possible to integrate into their new communities. at the same time, the eu must continue to strengthen cooperation with its global partners, address root causes and promote legal migration modalities that stimulate growth and development in countries of origin and destination.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the posting of workers [2016/2605 ((rsp)).
mr president, i strongly agree with the viewpoint of the commission, according to which the development of any legislation should be based upon well informed and evidence-based decisions. this is why i cannot find the logic in modifying the posting of workers directive when the transposition deadline of the enforcement directive has not even lapsed yet and before its effects can be felt. new action should only be taken after it has been ensured that the existing – properly enforced and controlled – legislation is not enough. i believe that this is especially true for the case at hand, where we are dealing with basic principles of the single market: freedom of movement and freedom to provide services across borders. we should be extremely cautious that in our efforts to fight abuses, fraud and lack of enforcement, which i agree is needed, we do not run the risk of creating bureaucratic and other barriers to labour mobility and, ultimately, to european competitiveness.
the debate is closed.
i'm not sure. thank you, thank you. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the free provision of services and the posting of workers are fundamental principles for the freedom of movement and the european internal market. the last european directive on this subject was in 2014 and its entry into force will take place in a few months. surprisingly, however, the european commission came up with a revision of this directive before it could even analyse the results of the implementation of the previous rules on posting of workers. the reason is allegedly the discovery of shortcomings in cross-border services, worker protection and equal treatment in terms of remuneration provisions (equal pay for equivalent work under equal conditions). first, the commission does not take into account the position of several member states when it comes up with such a proposal. in addition, the commission must be a driver for stimulating the economy and competitiveness in the labour market, not a hindrance. last but not least, the commission must defend the rights of cross-border workers, the development of smes, and stimulate competitiveness and competition in the labour market based on productivity, expertise, innovation and cost-effectiveness. i believe that the commission's proposal is against the fundamental principle of the eu - free movement of labour.
in writing. the european commission proposes to amend framework directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers by a company from one member state to carry out work in another member state. i believe that some of the proposed amendments to this directive will have a negative impact on labour mobility. the current directive thus clearly provides that a posted worker must be paid at least the minimum wage in the country where he is posted. it is a clear prediction, without any doubt of interpretation. another criterion, which is unclear and liable to be interpreted differently and therefore abused in its application, is proposed: the provision of 'the remuneration necessary for the protection of posted workers'. in addition to the fact that such a criterion is unclear, it also does not take into account the competitiveness of the companies that post workers. i am confident that in the european parliament we will be able to persuade the commission to abandon such amendments.
in writing. the freedom to provide services, a fundamental freedom of the european union's single market, gives businesses the right to provide services in another member state, where they can temporarily post their own workers to provide those services. in this regard, directive 96/71/ec sets out a number of conditions to ensure a minimum level of protection for posted workers, which has, for example, enabled the posting of around 1,9 million european workers to other member states in 2014. however, there is a proposal for a revision of this directive by the commission which is likely to constitute an obstacle to the freedom to provide services and labour mobility. the proposal provides that posted workers will benefit from the same rules governing working conditions and pay as local workers. in addition to the fact that these new provisions may constitute a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, moreover, they will most likely lead to a decrease in the number of romanian enterprises operating in the territory of other member states. this proposal could thus have negative effects on the competitiveness of the companies concerned, leading to a decrease in the number of service contracts and job losses.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission: what is the 'triple a' social rating? the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
madam president, i totally agree with the ambition of the commission to accompany macro-economic and fiscal policies by social measures and i fully support the new focus from the european semester on employment and social performance issues. after all, and i quote commissioner thyssen here, economic development and social progress are closely intertwined and mutually reinforcing. when it comes to definition of the social triple—a, i can also fully subscribe to the idea of an economically strong europe with the balanced growth that provides jobs and improves people’s lives. at the same time, i believe that when working towards this goal, we should avoid any over-regulation hindering growth and we should make sure that when introducing any new legislation we take into consideration the situation of different member states, the need to protect the freedoms offered by the single market to citizens and the safeguarding of european competitiveness.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work which he has done, for the draft report which he put forward and for the good cooperation which we had throughout the process between our two political groups. the report which we are putting in front of this house and which will be adopted tomorrow stays true to the two most important priorities of our time in europe: number one, continuation of economic recovery, and number two, managing the refugee crisis with the clear objective of reducing the influx of migration of illegal migrants into europe. on the continuation of economic recovery we are going to allocate enough resources to research, innovation and infrastructure, all very important in order to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, to strengthen the european economy and to lead to the creation of more jobs. as regards tackling the refugee crisis, parliament’s position is very clear and it is also outlined in the guidelines which we will adopt with a very large majority tomorrow. parliament sees the budget of the european union as part of the solution. parliament was always ready to act fast last year, as it is this year, when a crisis situation occurs, but likewise member states of the european union also have to fulfil their commitments in allocating enough financial resources to africa, to the madad fund, to the turkey refugee facility. on this basis, i truly believe that we will be able to adopt this report with a wide majority tomorrow and respond to the concerns of the citizens of europe.
i think it is important to maintain the european main lines for the 2017 budget: economic development and job creation. it is clear that the european budget is under pressure, especially because of the refugee crisis. it is necessary to identify solutions to resolve this crisis. these solutions must not, however, jeopardise the implementation of other important european policies. there are increasing calls for reallocation of funds for european policies, especially for cohesion policy. i think it's a mistake: refugees have to be integrated. to do that, we need to maintain economic development, which is what cohesion policy does. the reallocation of funds may improve the situation in the short term, but it jeopardises the economic situation, including integration in the long term. new budgetary rules must be identified, whereby the budget accepted by the member states for 2014-2020 is spent in full without any euro being returned to the member states. without a realistic assessment of the requirements, see turkey and greece, and without adequate proposals, the 2017 budget may be a failure. let's not forget that 2017 has to bring the correction requested by the cfm. i also believe that the new approach is needed quickly: an own resource budget for food and a results and performance budget for expenditure.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his consistent and precise recommendations on the 2017 budget of the european union. i take this opportunity, however, to respond to those who are trying to impose their own political interests by the amendments tabled to this report. as a member of the committee on budgets, i cannot accept the desire of some to question cohesion policy and the funds allocated by the european union to reduce development gaps and support local communities. to cope with the effects of the economic crisis, but also to respond coherently to the wave of migration, we need common development policies at european level. a united europe implies a europe with a similar level of development and with proactive policies for local communities. only together can we overcome the difficulties, and europe's financial stability depends on maintaining the objectives set at the time of the multiannual budget. i am firmly opposed to attempts to revise these objectives at mid-term, as they may have uncontrollable effects on the future of europe.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure it is clear that your dissatisfaction stemmed from the speech and i fully agree, but i want to ask you pointedly: you, after the speech of the vice-president, leave here with the perception that we have a coherent and clear programme. mr. vice president was telling us that the schengen zone had it all figured out by the end of the year. does it seem normal to you that the commission should draw up a draft for such a serious problem for three months, for six months, or do we need a coherent draft so that the citizens have the right perception? and what do you think about the division of europe into two zones, schengen and excluded countries, even though they signed the treaty and are members of the european union?
mr president, when someone in this house calls a people or a nation barbaric it is not just inacceptable, he should be expelled from this house. it is a shame on the european parliament.
mr president, i strongly believe there is no solution to the current migration challenges without close cooperation with turkey, but i am not sure that the terms of the discussion on monday are the right ones. it seems to me that reducing the flow of people entering europe has overridden the concerns about human rights and international law. the deal with turkey could be a breakthrough as much as a failed opportunity for our member states to face, united, their common responsibility in the face of a very difficult crisis. that being said, turkey needs to be praised for its efforts in dealing with a very large number of syrian and iraqi refugees, and for its willingness to welcome an even larger number. i also welcome the agreement on taking all necessary measures to close down people-smuggling routes and equally to break the business model of the smugglers. turkey is a candidate country, but the refugee crisis and the accession path have to be dealt with separately and criticisms have to be part of the enlargement process. here the commission is completely shy. therefore i condemn the seizing of the zaman newspaper by the turkish police this weekend. finally, i would like to ask turkey to refrain from any actions that could undermine the syrian ceasefire and the international peace talks on syria. while deploring the recent attacks against turkish citizens, i call on turkey to restart the peace process with the kurds. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– dear colleague, beside the populist speech and talk which is so common on your side of the house, i want to tell you that pragmatically, we desperately need a system to protect our eu external border – not just the schengen border but the eu external border – for all, and secondly, to deal pragmatically with our neighbours to confront the problem of refugees. simple populist solutions will never fly.
blue-card question.– this agreement with turkey has, in my opinion, good parts and some parts that are not very good. we are going to pay eur 6 billion in eu taxpayers’ money, and probably the smugglers and all the others are going to find other ways and means to bring migrants into europe. do you not think that in the end, at the twelfth hour, the european union might need a special european court to defend, guard and monitor eu external borders?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you have shown that you are satisfied with what the commission is doing. i bring to your attention a recent survey in which 52% of europeans do not understand the politics of the european institutions. what do you think is the path and what is the understanding that you have talked about here?
in writing. in the context of the draft agreement presented at the eu-turkey summit which ended yesterday, it is not entirely clear what the negotiating parties mean by speeding up accession negotiations. if it is indeed an acceleration, i take it positively, because it means that turkey is accelerating the alignment of its legal system with eu law and is reaffirming its willingness to respect freedom of opinion and expression and the rights of minorities, including the kurdish population of several million. but if this acceleration is in any way concealing the fact that the eu member states are ignoring the facts or applying special rules to turkey in the accession negotiations, then i can only express my strong opposition. the negotiations are indeed complex, but they serve precisely the purpose of preparing candidate countries thoroughly for eu membership. the worst possible message for the coherence of the enlargement process would be for one country to be treated differently by the eu than other candidates for political reasons.
in writing. ‒ pollution is one of the most pressing issues of this century, and measures to reduce the amount of substances that contribute to it are of immediate importance. moreover, the outlook for european legislation must be to find new ways of preventing pollution. one major impact area is fuel production, particularly the oil industry. of course, in order to be able to solve the substantive problems arising in this area, we must first have a coherent and compact legislation that can provide accessible solutions. this proposal of the european parliament and of the council sets out precisely this objective: to amend directive 1999/32/ec in order to make the text clearer. i voted in favour of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, supporting the proposal in question, which is limited to a simple codification of existing texts without substantive changes to them.
in writing. ‒ the european security strategy a secure europe in a better world identifies environmental degradation as a risk factor for contemporary society. since the quality of the environment has strong effects on human activity and health, and natural disasters can produce humanitarian crises and major migratory flows, it is necessary to comply with the rules governing the use of various pollutants, such as sulphur dioxide from the burning of various liquid fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. the proposal is basically a simple codification of existing texts, with no substantial changes to their substance.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide as a result of combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the negative effects of such emissions on man and the environment. these reductions in emissions will be achieved by imposing limits on the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels as a condition for their use within the territory of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this directive sets maximum sulphur permitted content of heavy fuel oil, diesel oil, marine fuel and marine diesel fuel used in the union. emissions from shipping from the combustion of marine fuels with high sulphur content contribute to air pollution with sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which are harmful to human health and the environment and contribute to acid deposition. in the absence of the measures laid down in this directive, emissions from maritime transport would soon have been higher than emissions from all land-based sources. in order to facilitate the transition to new engine technologies with the potential to deliver further significant emission reductions in the maritime sector, the commission should also explore other possibilities to allow and encourage the use of gas-fuelled engines on board ships. in accordance with the existing guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, member states may grant state aid to operators affected by this directive, including aid for the modernisation of existing vessels, provided that such aid is considered compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ protecting the health of its citizens and ensuring the high quality of medicines have been important objectives for the union. to guarantee them, increased attention is needed to substances that end up being produced, traded and consumed within its borders. at the marketing stage, the risks to be monitored are related to obtaining the necessary authorisations and establishing the markets for distribution. of course, to comply with the regulation of these issues we need to create coherent legislative measures, knowing that the implementation of legislation can create more problems than its issuance. that is why this proposal aims to improve the legislation, which i support and voted for.
in writing. ‒ developing countries have a high number of people suffering from communicable diseases. since some medicines needed to treat these diseases are not produced in developing countries, and to ensure people's right to quality health care, the european union requires that the prices of essential pharmaceutical products exported to these countries be adjusted to their purchasing power. i hope that by codifying in a single regulation and without substantive changes the texts governing these european decisions, the support given to people in order to have access to adapted pharmaceutical products will be maintained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the avoidance of trade diversion into the european union of certain key medicines. the proposal is basically a simple codification of existing texts, with no substantial changes to their substance.
in writing. ‒ the council regulation (ec) 953/2003 adopted in may 2003 was intended to increase the availability of pharmaceuticals covering treatments for hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria in the poorest developing countries. more than 10 years after the regulation’s adoption, the mechanism created has been used only to a limited extent by one company only. i have voted for this report that should supply medicines at sustainable low prices to poor and developing countries in the fight against major diseases.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to prevent the possibility of differentiated priced products being imported into the union. derogations are provided for in certain situations, provided that it is strictly ensured that the final destination of the products concerned is one of the countries listed in annex ii to this regulation. many of the poorest developing countries urgently need access to affordable essential medicines for the treatment of communicable diseases. those countries are heavily dependent on imports of medicines, as their local production is low. it is therefore necessary to set different prices in the markets of developed countries and in the markets of the poorest developing countries in order to ensure that the latter are supplied with essential pharmaceutical products at much reduced prices. therefore, these much reduced prices cannot be considered as a benchmark for the price to be paid for the same products on the markets of developed countries.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of information between the member states of the union, but also between these states and other third countries, is a key element in ensuring fairness for european citizens in tax and financial measures. the eu member states and andorra will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by their respective residents as of 2018 for information collected as of 1 january 2017 in order to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets for which no tax has been paid. i appreciate that this proposal will also benefit andorra, which has recently reformed its national tax system by introducing personal income taxation for its residents. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a legislative act on the automatic exchange of financial account information.
in writing. ‒ cooperation with partner countries to tackle tax havens, tax fraud and tax evasion is of major importance for the european union and the member states. the procedures for the automatic exchange of information established by this agreement aim at correctly identifying situations of fraud and assessing the likelihood of tax evasion. by strengthening tax legislation in cross-border situations, the possibilities for illicit money transfers and the use of neighbouring states as tax havens are reduced. i support the signing of the agreement, drawing attention to the importance of concluding similar agreements with the states in the eastern neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries. tax administrations in the member states and in andorra will be able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve international tax cooperation and compliance, the eu and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial account information. an automatic exchange of information on financial accounts will start in 2018. this should reduce the possibility for tax evasion. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 12 february 2016 the european union and andorra signed an agreement regarding the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. with this agreement, the eu member states and andorra will have the possibility to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents from 2018. i have voted for this report that aims to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial account information with a view to enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the agreement will enter into force provisionally on 1 january 2017. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. under the new agreement, eu member states and andorra will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by their respective residents. the purpose of this approach is to address situations where the taxpayer attempts to conceal capital representing income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the agreement also aims to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework and complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information. as a result of the new agreement, the tax authorities of the member states and andorra will be able to: correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned; administer and enforce national tax laws in cross-border situations; assess the likelihood of tax evasion; and avoid unnecessary additional enquiries.
in writing. the european union has recently embarked on a broad process of combating tax evasion and tax fraud. to this end, the eu has concluded a number of agreements with third countries on cooperation in the exchange of information on bank accounts. the commission has also concluded that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the exchange of information will be extended, as of 2017, to accounts of residents of both parties, in order to avoid the concealment of capital for which the appropriate taxes have not been paid by taxpayers. the application of these measures by andorra will be equivalent to the application of european legislation in this field, in line with the global oecd standards. in these circumstances, i support the adoption of the present document as an important step in solving this problem.
in writing. i voted for the report on the ec-andorra agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. earlier this year, the eu and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, with the aim of improving tax cooperation and compliance at international level. this agreement represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and updates the 2004 agreement which ensures that andorra applies measures equivalent to those in the eu savings tax directive.
in writing. ‒ the union's organisations are the driving force behind its actions, and their breakdown into structures and areas ensures better coherence and coverage of citizens' needs. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority shall support insurance undertakings and contribute to a system of financial supervision together with other institutions. following a selection procedure opened on 28 january 2016, the eiopa board of supervisors proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years in accordance with article 51 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 and, on 23 february 2016, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with fausto parente, during which he made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the committee, in strict accordance with the procedures for these situations. in the light of the fact that those authorities are independent and act only in the interest of the union as a whole, i voted in favour of the opinion on the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has a major role to play in crisis prevention by maintaining financial stability and monitoring and assessing potential risks and vulnerabilities that may arise in various cross-border activities and areas of competence. in a society where the ratio between the active and passive population is highly imbalanced, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority monitors these changes in order to ensure the protection of policyholders. as the fulfilment of the tasks of this authority requires a person who has demonstrated his professionalism in the functions he has held in the past, i strongly support the appointment of fausto perente as executive director of eiopa.
in writing. ‒ taking into consideration the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) of 3 february 2016 for the appointment of the executive director of the eiopa for a five-year term (c8-0023/2016), i support the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of office of five years, in accordance with article 51(2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
mr president, i did not support this report for the following reason. i agree with the basic idea of a uniform procedural protection for children, but i do not agree with the way the directive is actually written. and that's for two basic reasons. firstly, the scope of the rights thus unified is too broad, for example the right to privacy is being unified, and i believe that this should remain the responsibility of the individual national states. for example, in the czech republic right now, there's a debate about whether or not the perpetrators of serious crime, children, should be anonymous. and the second reason is that i think it is too much protection for the european parliament to extend the category of children to the age of 21. it seems to me that this is too much protection and that we should stick to the original proposal that the commission was preparing, which was the age of 18.
mr president, the commission estimates that over one million children are subject to criminal proceedings each year. this is equivalent to 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings. that's a very large number! children's rights are not sufficiently guaranteed in reality, in practice, in the various criminal proceedings in many member states. the ecthr already has numerous judgments on specific situations in which children's rights have not been respected in the course of criminal proceedings by various authorities in the member states. that is why it is very important to have some minimum standards for respecting the procedural rights of children so that they can enjoy a fair trial: for example, legal aid, the right to a lawyer, the right to an interpreter if needed and so on. i voted for this report precisely because we need to guarantee a fair trial and common minimum standards for persons under the age of eighteen who are, for various reasons, accused or victims and therefore involved in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the right to a fair trial can only be ensured by establishing common minimum standards and by its effective and sufficiently homogeneous exercise at all stages of the procedure. moreover, in the case of persons under the age of eighteen, that right is linked to the objective of facilitating the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in criminal matters and ensuring the fair functioning of the european area of justice. i appreciate that the proposal aims at defining a limited but properly structured set of rights for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or who are subject to a european arrest warrant procedure), through a set of minimum standards, interconnected and calibrated to the specific needs of children throughout the procedure. in conclusion, i support the eu agenda on the rights of the child and the effective implementation of justice in the best interests of the child by voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than one million children in the member states of the european union are in situations of illegality. lack of education and the ease with which minors can be influenced to commit wrongdoing are just two of the reasons why legal systems need to be adapted to their particularities. whatever the offence or the reason for suspecting the minor, he or she must be treated in accordance with his or her intellectual capacity and understanding. it is also important that an assessment be made from the very beginning of the proceedings, taking into account the degree of maturity and the family, social and economic environment in which the minor has developed. particular attention should be paid to minors from vulnerable groups such as street children, minorities, immigrants or persons with disabilities. i believe that the european union and the member states must ensure procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, respecting both their particularities and their dignified and non-discriminatory treatment.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, which strengthens the initial commission proposal, as children are a specific category of vulnerable persons and strong minimum standards at eu level will help to properly protect child suspects safe in criminal proceedings across the union. i welcome the important gains obtained by my colleagues during the negotiations with the council, such as the provisions on assistance by a lawyer, the individual assessment and the medical examination. moreover, i welcome the fact that the text counteracts negative provisions introduced by the council in relation to audio-visual recording of interviews, the use of detention as a measure of last resort, the right to privacy, and possible costs implications. consistency with the previous adopted measures of the roadmap should be maintained; member states must fully respect fundamental rights and prevent violations giving rise to european court rulings.
in writing. ‒ i salute the proposal for a legislative report regarding a directive on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. this report strengthens the initial proposal – in particular with regard to provisions on assistance by a lawyer, individual assessment mechanisms and the medical examination.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a directive is established in order to strengthen procedural rights of suspected or accused persons in criminal proceedings. i have voted for this report that has as its main provisions: the rules on questioning; the right to an individual assessment; the mandatory right to be assisted by a lawyer, in close connection with the right to free legal aid; the provision for the child to take part in the proceedings; compulsory special training for judges, law enforcement authorities and prison staff, lawyers and others who come into contact with children in their work; the provisions on detention, under which children should be held on remand only where there is no alternative, and in such cases, it must be ensured that the children are held separately from adults, except where it is in their best interests not to do so.
in writing. ‒ as there is at present no definition in the eu of what constitutes a ‘fair trial’ for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, this proposal is very timely. the continuous involvement of the european court of human rights in challenging member state court rulings against children, as well as the fact that only in some member states do children have the right to be assisted by a lawyer, testifies to the need for a more coherent and streamlined catalogue of rights to protect children throughout the eu. it is with this in mind that i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the administration of justice within the eu member states has remained, for the most part, a strictly national responsibility. however, at a general level, the european institutions can issue recommendations and even directives on the procedures applied by the member states. one such area, which is quite sensitive, is procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. children are, by their very position in society, the most vulnerable to criminal offences, and they generally lack the discernment to avoid certain criminal behaviour. in these circumstances, juvenile delinquency cases should benefit from special legal assistance from the office, alongside the medical and individual assistance that is required. the use of audio-visual recordings of hearings should also be limited as far as possible, alongside the right to privacy. another very important element is the use of custodial measures for juvenile offenders, which should be the last resort and only in extremely serious cases, involving mainly adolescents. this document is a first step towards regulating this rather complex area, but it is a necessary measure. therefore, i consider his adoption to be auspicious.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the refugee crisis, solidarity between member states is a highly debated topic at eu level. i believe that, as regards the aid granted by each state, account should be taken of the possibilities of each state to be able to contribute to the resolution of this crisis. one of the amendments to this report, amendment no 22, speaks of this solidarity shown by the member states. it states that it is unevenly distributed across the member states and asks the commission to come forward with a proposal on how the eu budget can encourage member states to take a more balanced approach in this respect. in other words, the european commission should sanction states that some people think have not shown solidarity in the refugee crisis. given that this amendment was voted on and therefore adopted, i cannot vote in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii, because complying with amendment 22 would clearly be in breach of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states are facing various internal and external crises, which can have an impact at budgetary level. first, at the external level, the eu is facing emerging security threats (terrorism, extremism) as well as a migrant and refugee crisis. these external crises have a strong impact on internal crises. but the eu must remain an area of freedom, security and justice and strengthen crossborder operational cooperation to ensure decent conditions in line with human rights. at home, the european union and the member states must continue to promote the social values that underpin the union by bringing people closer together. to this end, the general budgetary guidelines should take into account: reducing unemployment, especially among young people; combating poverty, socioeconomic inequality, exploitation and social exclusion. these can be improved by promoting the convergence, integration and cohesion policies set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which sets the guidelines and the main political priorities for the european parliament for the 2017 eu budget, and provides a comprehensive overview of the current budgetary situation. i welcome the fact that flexibility regarding contributions to the eu budget from the member states under the stability and growth pact (sgp) has been included. however, i regret the fact that the idea of solidarity as an underlying principle of the eu budget, an idea that should also be respected in dealing with the refugee crisis, has not been included. finally, i believe we must be ready to mobilise all means available to address the current social and economic crises.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the main priorities for the european parliament for the eu budget 2017, and gives an overview of the current budgetary situation. this includes among others: refugee and migration crisis, efsi, economic growth, youth employment initiative, child guarantee (poverty), climate change, payment crisis, refugee facility for turkey. the european parliament is ready to mobilise all means available to address the existing crisis in europe.
in writing. ‒ the current geopolitical situation that europe faces will affect the 2017 budget through the evolving migration and refugee crisis and by the economical dependency on global developments of the eu. i have voted for this report that should lay down the road towards economic growth and job creation, in the current context of a fragile economic recovery that is jeopardised by the situation in emerging global markets and ongoing geopolitical tensions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the establishment of the 2017 budget is a very important issue and must take into account the continuation of eu growth and job creation, in the context of a fragile economic recovery, jeopardised by the current geopolitical situation and tensions. in this respect, as the report proposes, i believe that the preparation of the budget must take into account the stimulation of public and private investment, but also the increase in the use of the structural funds in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. these policies must be the main tools for ensuring stable economic growth and strengthening cohesion within the eu, which is why i am glad that the european parliament has expressed its consensus on this issue.
in writing. the budget of the european union is the main instrument through which european structures can ensure the smooth running of the european project in practice. the general budgetary guidelines for 2017 indicate the main priorities of the union for the period ahead. these include the refugee and migration crisis, the european fund for strategic investments, economic growth, the youth employment initiative, the child guarantee (against poverty), climate change, late payments, the facility for refugees in turkey, etc. there are still a number of problems with the flexibility of member states' contributions to the eu budget and the respect of the principle of solidarity. unfortunately, solidarity between member states is being tested by the problems of the moment and has not been included in the current document. overall, however, the document reflects the main areas of union interest where consistent action is needed. the adoption of this document will allow a better response to the crises currently facing the eu, although greater commitment by member states is also needed to overcome the existing problems.
mr president, we have a rich, perhaps too rich, sometimes unclear legislation in the european union, because each or many of our colleagues comes with a personal agenda, and so our legislation is full of gift, and, or, moreover, especially, particularly, and that makes it like a christmas tree. that is why many european citizens do not understand what we mean by 'everything' and sometimes we run out of content. that is why i am very much in favour of this report. the laws must be simple, clear, precise, short. short, i insist we are here to legislate for european citizens and not to promote on the agenda each one a subject that we want to find in every law we pass. the commission, parliament and council must consult each other and also consult the citizens for whom we work. transparency and public consultation!
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure a well-informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making process and the correct application of legislation, with provisions protecting the prerogatives of legislators, interinstitutional negotiations were formally opened between the three main institutions of the union on 25 june 2015. during these meetings, a number of priorities were set, in particular as regards the quality of the drafting of the commission's legislative texts, multiannual and annual programming, strengthening the impact assessment of draft laws, equal treatment of the two arms of the legislative authority throughout the legislative process on access to information, appropriate interinstitutional consultations, the commission's response to parliament's proposals and recommendations and the provision of detailed justifications for each withdrawal envisaged. the three institutions consider that public and stakeholder consultation, ex-post evaluations of existing legislation and impact assessments of new initiatives will contribute to the achievement of the objective of better regulation. given that this agreement reflects the competences of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and the balance between these institutions, as provided for in the treaties, i voted in favour of this draft.
in writing. ‒ given the complexity of the european union's legislative process and the crisis of confidence we are currently facing, it is necessary to promote simplicity, clarity, coherence and transparency in the drafting of legislation, while maintaining the importance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. in addition, for better law-making, it is appropriate that the three institutions take into account the impact of their legislative and non-legislative initiatives, public and stakeholder consultation through feedback tools, as well as ex-post evaluation of the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ i believe the interinstitutional agreement is balanced but we must continue to push for the cost of non-europe (social, environment etc.) to be included in impact assessments. moreover, we must continue to fight to protect the right of the legislator to decide, and for any regulatory targets to be assessed case by case in the legislation. i welcome the fact that social partner agreements are protected and will not be subject to impact assessments. impact assessments are a tool to help not a substitute for political decisions within the democratic process, and must include social and environmental impacts as well as economic ones. i support the call for a commitment to more transparency in the legislative process by the council. finally, i would like to express my support for the agreement which will allow for better application of eu law, respecting agreements with social partners and more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i believe that we need this agreement which will allow for better application of eu law, respecting agreements with social partners and more transparency.
in writing. ‒ this agreement accompanies several past agreements and declarations on better law-making. i have voted for this report on better law-making that will take into consideration the general principles of eu law, such as democratic legitimacy, subsidiarity, proportionality, legal certainty and transparency throughout the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ i stress the importance of the provisions in the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making tools (impact assessments, consultation of the public and stakeholders, evaluations, etc.) for a well-informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making process and for the correct application of the law. i believe that impact assessments need to be comprehensive and balanced and should assess, inter alia, the costs borne by producers, consumers, workers and administrators and the environmental costs that are generated by the failure to adopt the necessary legislation. the impact assessment on smes should be included in the impact assessment reports and we ask the commission to provide further information on this practice. the three eu institutions agreed to cooperate on updating and simplifying legislation and to exchange views on this before the completion of the commission's work programme. the burden-reduction targets in specific sectors need to be carefully assessed on a case-by-case basis, in close cooperation between the institutions, with a focus on the quality of legislation and without undermining relevant union standards. this agreement will allow for better implementation of eu legislation, respecting agreements with the social partners and ensuring greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that good relations and cooperation between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission are the foundation of this union, and that their improvement in openness and transparency will provide the means for better legislation, in the interests of all european citizens. in this respect, as the report proposes, the three institutions should continue to promote the most effective regulatory instruments, such as harmonisation and mutual recognition of judgments. this is essential to reduce excessive regulation and administrative burden.
in writing. codification of european legislation requires good cooperation between the main community institutions, the parliament, the council and the commission. even when disagreements arise between the three actors, there are mechanisms for dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution that takes into account the interests of the member states and of european citizens. the interinstitutional agreement provides the framework for the conduct of this dialogue within the appropriate parameters. the old agreement, adopted in 2003, was updated in december 2015 without major changes. however, additional protection of agreements with the social partners is required, as well as a change in impact studies to include the social, economic and environmental dimensions, alongside the regulation of areas that are not currently included in the european legislative pillar. in this respect, the european parliament must have a stronger say in the field of annual and multiannual programming and the council's legislative procedures must become more transparent. member states may apply directives in a manner as close as possible to existing national legislation, but the application of directives must be monitored by the commission. the current agreement is an important step forward and deserves to be supported.
mr. chairman, after reviewing all the documents, i have taken a cautious approach to this agreement. the documents at least at my disposal clearly show that the agreement that was already in place and which we voted to extend today, in effect, clearly showed that on the one hand there was a decline in the number of smuggled and counterfeited philip morris products, but on the other hand there was an immediate increase in the number of smuggled and counterfeited white cigarettes. in other words, the result that there was a general reduction in the illicit trade in tobacco products did not occur. that is why i think we have to look for a different way, a more systematic way than just some kind of individual agreements with specific large producers, because it is quite clear that this does not break the market for illegal tobacco products. that is why i am reluctant to discuss the matter we have voted on.
mr president, the illicit tobacco trade is causing losses of over eur 10 million a year in the european union. it's our money, everybody's money, that we're losing. in addition, illicit tobacco trade contributes to the financing of international, cross-border organised crime, trafficking in drugs, children, persons, arms, etc. as for the commission, i regret that it took so long to present its technical assessment of this agreement with philip morris and i hope that this will not happen again in the future. i also ask the commission to have transparent negotiations. until now, anyone who wanted to see this extension of the philip morris agreement had to do it in a secret room, with a signature, without being able to take notes. let's be transparent, because this is smuggling and it's our money. i voted against extending this agreement with philip morris because it dates back to 2004. the world has changed since then. i'm over 12 years old! new ways must be found to combat smuggling of tobacco, counterfeit products and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade at the union's borders threatens the stability of the single market, but also the rights that the european institutions have committed themselves to ensuring for its citizens. this is also the case for the tobacco industry, where the 2014 tobacco products directive and the who protocol already exist, which provide for identification and traceability measures and introduce security features that facilitate law enforcement and are the best tools to combat illicit trade in the eu. in this context, i opposed the renewal of the tobacco agreement with philip morris international (pmi) as its objectives are present in union law, but also because renewing a specific agreement with the tobacco industry would be inappropriate in the context of the eu's efforts to combat the impact of tobacco on public health.
in writing. ‒ the conflict between freedom and illicit actions is continuous. the european union invests over €10 billion a year in fighting crime, including smuggling and counterfeiting. furthermore, i support my vote by pointing out that the tobacco agreements are inconsistent with article 5 (3) of the who framework convention and do not correspond with article 8 (12) of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, which proves the possibility of a commercial interest in public health. i encourage the european commission not to conclude any contracts in the future if transparent cooperation between the parties is refused. counterfeiting and illicit trafficking of tobacco products is a concern as any product sold lawfully on the eu retail market is checked and approved; however, there is no official information on counterfeit products, meaning that their composition is unknown. this is of utmost importance for the health of the population, as 700 000 europeans die prematurely every year as a result of smoking.
in writing. ‒ the mechanisms established by the anti-smuggling and counterfeiting agreement signed with philip morris international (pmi) in 2004 have proved effective against theft from pmi factories and the illicit sale of the abovementioned products. however, it is noted that this agreement has not led to an overall reduction in contraband products on european markets, as the union's border states are frequently confronted with trafficking situations involving so-called 'cheap whites' tobacco products. i would therefore like to draw attention to the importance of developing new mechanisms to combat the trade in counterfeit products and cigarette smuggling in their entirety.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the extension of an agreement with philip morris that was designed to help tackle smuggling and fraud of branded cigarettes. i believe that although the agreement has been useful, changes in the market and regulatory environment mean it is no longer the best means to continue the fight against illicit tobacco.
in writing. ‒ the report on tobacco is very important and i congratulate the rapporteur on her success. i am also glad that my political group did not support the extension of the imp agreement. personally, i cannot accept an agreement between the eu and a company, a tobacco company, however big. tobacco is both a casualty and a health hazard, but beyond this extremely important point, i believe that the eu's role in trade agreements is outdated. the eu can replace agreements with states, but not with a company, and i regret that such an agreement existed under the childish pretext of fighting cigarette smuggling. i voted the report for the resolution not to renew the pmi agreement.
in writing. ‒ i find the extension of the agreement with phillip morris on illicit tobacco unnecessary. although it was a useful tool to fight against the illicit tobacco trade for the past 12 years, the agreement with phillip morris has become obsolete. the development of new regulatory tools such as the tobacco products directive and the who protocol on tobacco control and the uncovered issue of unbranded cigarettes known as ‘cheap-whites’ which are traded in considerable amounts has transformed this agreement in an obsolete tool to fight against illicit tobacco trade. concerning the possible gap between the expiration of this agreement and the entering into force of the new regulatory tools, i believe this can be solved by adopting temporary measures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution regarding the tobacco agreement after its assessment.
in writing. ‒ the original pmi agreement played an important role in compensating for lost revenue and fighting the trade in illicit tobacco. however, the arrangement is now outdated and does not take account of more recent developments, such as the availability of unbranded products, the so-called ‘cheap whites’, and the new provisions in the tobacco products directive. this changed environment calls for new solutions.
in writing. ‒ member states and the commission concluded agreements with tobacco manufacturers philip morris international in 2004, japan tobacco in 2007, british american tobacco in 2010 and imperial tobacco in 2010. these agreements commit the companies concerned to sell only to trusted customers and to implement a surveillance system to help prevent and combat illicit trade in cigarettes. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the 2014 tobacco directive on the health of consumers and on the health of consumers, in particular by assessing the impact of the 2014 tobacco directive on the health of consumers and the health of consumers. in this regard, in order to protect the health of european citizens and the financial interests of the european union, given that national and european budgets suffer losses of eur 10 billion each year due to the trade in counterfeit and contraband cigarettes, it is necessary to renew the agreement with philip morris international until other instruments become available. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the tobacco agreement.
mr president, the european union has decided to resume its development assistance to eritrea, notably via a national indicative programme (nip) – as was mentioned, for eur 200 million – despite the fact that scrutiny working group a of parliament’s committee on development, which i chair, called on the edf committee on 11 november 2015 not to adopt the draft nip, pending further discussion. it seems that parliament is, unfortunately, not being taken into consideration. this is explained mainly by the human rights situation in eritrea, which has long been deteriorating. there is a messy situation in this country. nowadays, civilians are regularly and arbitrarily detained or arrested for a number of unjustifiable reasons, for example: criticising or opposing the government, practising journalism, practising an unofficial religion, evading or deserting mandatory national service, or trying to flee the country. eritreans fleeing the country now constitute the third largest group of refugees making the perilous journey to europe. however, our call to the commission was not taken into consideration. we call on you, as the representative of the council, to take our decisions into consideration.
mr president, as we all know, since the end of 2015, the european commission has removed the word 'progress' from the title of its annual reports for candidate and potential candidate countries. for some cases, maybe it's not good that this is happening. for macedonia, i think it's appropriate not to talk about "progress". perhaps it would have been appropriate to speak of "regression" in the case of macedonia, because that is what happened, and the political class is responsible for the situation, and especially those who systematically cultivate boycott and radicalism as political solutions. unfortunately, some of our colleagues encourage them as well. against the backdrop of such a political culture, which refuses to dialogue, macedonia is in a perpetual political crisis and we certainly want things to change. it would be good if the entire political class treated responsibly the commitments it has made. personally, i was very disappointed to see how quickly the socialists backed away from the commitments [...] made to the date of the elections, originally scheduled for april. i hope that he will not change his mind again and that the elections can be [...] (the president interrupted the speaker). mr. president, i see that you've let all the other speakers spend a lot of time over their allotted time and i don't understand why you won't allow me to finish. i had one minute and [...] (the president interrupted the speaker). i think you're acting partisan. you give your fellow group members a privilege. this is unacceptable!
mr president, i take note of the decision by the macedonian parliament of 23 february to set a new date to hold early parliamentary elections on 5 june 2016. the fact that there was no consensus with the opposition party is highly regrettable and represents a missed political opportunity, as the media reforms and inter-party talks may now be delayed until after the elections. i strongly believe all the political parties in macedonia should make efforts to create the conditions for credible early elections and that an all-party agreement remains essential to fulfil all elements in the pržino agreement. moreover, substantial progress in the implementation of the urgent reform priorities has to be made. bilateral issues with greece and bulgaria should not be used to obstruct the eu and nato accession process but should be addressed in a constructive spirit as early as possible in the process, taking into account the principles and values of the united nations and the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– of course macedonia has to comply with all the requests considering all these kinds of issues, by all means. but at the same time, we cannot leave all these countries from the western balkans in a grey area. it is a necessity to gradually integrate all these countries into the european union and nato if we want to secure the future of this organisation called the european union. it is very important for all of us.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr tannock for the substance of this report. listening to our debate and looking at the report, it is crystal clear where montenegro stands today on the accession path. i think we can all agree that further efforts are needed in a number of areas. i am referring to an effective, transparent and accountable public administration, an independent and efficient judiciary, and a credible and bold fight against corruption and organised crime. but montenegro, since the start of the accession negotiations, has come a long way. a total of 22 chapters were opened, two have been provisionally closed. needless to say, montenegro is in the lead in the enlargement process. the progress of montenegro goes well beyond its borders. its success demonstrates that the accession process is still credible and predictable. it shows that eu enlargement is still able to deliver.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me conclude my presentation today by reiterating my appreciation to the members of the european parliament, and in particular to rapporteur tannock for your work in helping montenegro to move closer to the european union. your resolution captures the basic elements of our policy towards the country, acknowledging progress achieved but setting out clearly the challenges for the future. joining the european union is a key foreign policy priority for the country and it enjoys strong cross-party support. montenegro is actively pursuing the goal of eu integration and the support of this parliament is crucial in ensuring the transformative power of enlargement for the country. in may, montenegro will celebrate the 10th anniversary of its independence. it has already achieved a lot in the past 10 years. starting negotiations for accession to the european union and receiving an invitation to join nato can be counted amongst these achievements. however, as it has already been said several times by many of the speakers, important challenges remain. in the short term, these include the full implementation of the new electoral legislation that will ensure credible local and parliamentary elections in 2016. they also include making tangible progress on the rule of law, delivering on the commitments of its economic reform programme and ensuring a depoliticised and effective public administration. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, we see 2016 as the year of tangible results, especially on the rule of law issues. we expect montenegro to achieve results and we count on the support of this house in helping montenegro reach its goal.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, as many members noted during this debate, the un and montenegro have maintained a positive momentum in relations. and many of you noted as well that montenegro still has work to do in the field of the rule of law. the eu’s fundamental values, and notably the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights make us unique in the world, and we should be proud of that. therefore it is important and it will continue to be important that montenegro’s rule-of-law system delivers concrete results and establishes a solid track record in, for example, the fight against corruption and organised crime. many of you also commented on montenegro’s relationship with nato. i consider montenegro a partner country that contributes towards the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations. montenegro’s positive role in further developing regional cooperation and advancing good neighbourly relations is also noted. so, the invitation for montenegro is also an important contribution to stability in the region. that does not mean that no further efforts on reforms on rule-of-law issues are needed – they are needed. madam president, to conclude, when moving ahead in the accession process i would like to assure parliament that we will closely monitor the progress made, paying particular attention to the area of the rule of law and the other important issues also mentioned here today.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 march 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on veterinary medical products (com(2014)0558 – c8-0164/2014 – 2014/0257(cod)) (a8—0046/2016), and – the report by claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products (com(2014)0557 – c8-0142/2014 – 2014/0256(cod)) (a8-0035/2016).
the reporter. madam president, i would like to begin by saying that i welcome the commission's proposal to separate marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. in addition to the new regulation on veterinary medicinal products, to which ms grossetête has just referred, the commission also had to amend regulation no 726/2004. however, as my report shows, there were a number of elements in the proposal that needed improvement. firstly, for the sake of clarity, since all the articles relating to the authorisation procedure for veterinary medicinal products are now moved to a new regulation, i have clarified in the text that the european medicines agency remains responsible, under the centralised authorisation procedure, for both human and veterinary medicinal products. the report shall also ensure that the revised regulation is in line with the new financial regulation. we now have a clear and updated picture of the principles applicable to the agency's budget, including a separation between the different sources of revenue that make up the budget of the european medicines agency. as a result of the broad support received within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, parliament should be fully involved in the process of setting the agency's fees through the ordinary legislative procedure, as was recently done for the legislation on fees for pharmacovigilance. finally, the text voted in the envi committee recognises the role of the european medicines agency in increasing access to medicines. the report also contains a reference to the agency's cooperation with htabs, as currently in place, to further facilitate cooperation and the exchange of scientific information. ema should also be able to provide member states with a comparative assessment of medicinal products for human use. such an assessment could subsequently be used by member states, on a voluntary basis, during the national decision-making process on setting prices and reimbursement conditions, activities which, of course, remain within national competence. now, as the alternative rapporteur on the grossetête report, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and her colleagues on their good cooperation. we now have a very well-structured report which allows for considerable improvements in the field of veterinary medicinal products. the proposed measures include limiting and controlling the use of antibiotics in animal treatment, but also creating a favourable environment for investment in research and development of new medicines and more. the aim is to increase access to veterinary medicines and to make a much wider therapeutic arsenal available to veterinarians. in this respect, the requirements for medicinal products for narrow markets are also simplified. in addition, the movement of veterinary medicinal products between member states is facilitated by improved authorisation procedures and clear rules on modern retail forms. in this respect, we have reached an agreement allowing the retail sale of veterinary medicinal products on the internet, with the exception of antimicrobials, psychotropic products and biological immunological products. in a similar way to what happens for medicinal products for human use, the commission is invited to adopt guidelines to support member states in developing a harmonised system of digital prescriptions in the european union. it is regrettable that a large proportion of the antibiotics sold in the european union are given to animals. it's our duty to protect the effectiveness of antibiotics in health care facilities, but also on farms. this report provides clear measures for the correct and appropriate use of antibiotics on the farm and the prohibition of the routine preventive use of antimicrobials. this is complemented by stricter standards for the use of antimicrobial metaphylaxis. in order to combat antimicrobial resistance, everyone should be involved, including national authorities, patients, doctors, but also veterinarians, farmers and consumers.
member of the commission.– madam president, you have heard my explanation setting out the commission’s intentions and opinion on this proposed new regulation on veterinary medicines and i have listened to the views of this house with great interest. it is important to reach an agreement on these new rules in order to increase the availability of veterinary medicines and, even more urgently, to address the risks to public health arising from the use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine. the commission welcomes further provisions addressing amr and considers most of them positive. i also welcome the amendment introducing precise conditions on prophylactics and methaphylactic use of antimicrobials, inter alia prophylactic use restricted to single animals and only when fully justified by a veterinarian, and methaphylactic use restricted to clinically ill animals and to single animals that are identified as being at high risk of contamination. i am sure that we will have very interesting discussions on this issue during the trilogue and you will be able to access those in detail. some members have mentioned very important issues relating to innovations. use of new innovative treatments is very important to all of us. innovations, access to veterinary medicines, the fight against amr and the protection of public health are not in contradiction. on the contrary, innovation is a main tool to guarantee public health. i am sure that we must also debate in detail many other issues; for example, the proposal to collect data at farm level needs to be further assessed as it could be burdensome and may create additional administrative burdens. i firmly believe that on the basis of the good work done by the european parliament we will be able to fully achieve those goals in the near future. i would like to once again thank madam grossetête and mr tănăsescu for their excellent work. now it is the time for the council to follow the good example of the european parliament and speed up its work on the proposals with the aim of coming to a first-reading agreement. i can assure you of the full support of the commission towards reaching agreement with the council as soon as possible.
the reporter. madam president, i would like to start by thanking rapporteur grossetête, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues, for their work and for the excellent collaboration we have had on both dossiers. i would like to emphasise that, through these two reports, we have clearer legislation and better adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector. among other things, we have clarified the role of the agency in the authorisation of medicinal products and created a favourable framework for the development of new medicines. tomorrow's vote is a huge step forward in protecting animal and human health, but also in the fight against antibiotic resistance. i hope we have your support in this.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 march 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the commission on thalidomide by françoise grossetête, mairead mcguinness and esteban gonzález pons, on behalf of the ppe groupmatthias groote, pavel poc, nicola caputo, and soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the s&d group, julie girling, bolesław g. piecha, on behalf of the ecr group,gerben-jan gerbrandy, maite pagazaurtundúa ruiz, beatriz becerra basterrechea, on behalf of the alde group,kateřina konečná, stefan eck, eleonora forenza, estefanía torres martínez, lynn boylan, miguel urbán crespo, lola sánchez caldentey, barbara spinelli, josu juaristi abaunz, fabio de masi, jiří maštálka, merja kyllönen, ángela vallina, paloma lópez bermejo, patrick le hyaric, tania gonzález peñas, xabier benito ziluaga, marisa matias, on behalf of the gue/ngl groupbas eickhout, jill evans, on behalf of the verts/ale group, andpiernicola pedicini, eleonora evi, marco affronte, david borrelli, marco zullo, rosa d'amato, fabio massimo castaldo, isabella adinolfi, laura ferrara, tiziana beghin, rolandas paksas, peter lundgren, tim aker, william (the earl of) dartmouth, john stuart agnew, on behalf of the efdd group (o—000035/2016 – b8-0120/2016).
mr president, commissioner, the zika virus is an international health emergency, as the question to the commission also states. commissioner, you have presented the commission's view today, recognising the urgency of this matter. i am surprised because in most cases the commission's reaction is late. prevention and public information are known to save lives. the population must be well informed and timely, and the measures presented must be taken in a timely manner. i have a question for you: i don't know how you came to the figure of 10 million euros. why ten and eight or twenty? do you have a study that comes up with that amount? are there solutions to counteract the virus? what should the population do to protect themselves? i believe that the european institutions must be much more focused on health protection measures and do much more in common policies with the member states for information and prevention.
in writing. zika virus is known to be transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected aedes mosquito, especially aedes aegypti, which is found in tropical areas. the rapid geographical spread of this virus, particularly in south america, requires eu support measures for the health authorities in affected countries to implement control area strategies aimed at reducing aedes mosquito populations. at this point, the eu needs to invest in prevention measures, which translate into scientific research for the creation of vaccines. i am pleased to hear that this is the direction the commission is taking and i hope that it will keep parliament regularly informed of the state of play of its research. i am pleased to hear that the commission's approach to zika is based on measures against serious cross-border threats to health and that it will work with member states to this end. we need close cooperation because, in the context of summer in europe, the health of citizens may be threatened by the activation of the zika virus in mosquito populations on our continent. the objectives to be pursued are clear: prevention and treatment of the epidemic, and cooperation between member states will be the basis for these actions.
mr president, commissioner, the major problem we are facing in the banking union is the transfer of authority to the single supervisory mechanism. we have all seen what it means when, in tense situations, you cannot make decisions on internal matters and have to wait for a centralised decision from brussels. i would point out that each member state has a different banking market according to the standard of living and the behaviour of consumers. i consider it a priority at this stage of the report to clearly identify those instruments which will remain at the disposal of the member states in order to ensure independence and security in the event of crisis situations. the second problem is the economic disparity between member states. the banking union will not be possible as long as the european commission has not achieved its objectives of standardising living standards, and in the event of future crises, i believe it is necessary that the banking security of the member states be ensured exclusively and independently by the national banks, because they have historical experience, adapted to the internal problems of the respective countries.
mr president, i thank mr gualtieri for this report and all those who contributed to it: a very good report! i also want to thank commissioner hill and the whole european commission for the fact that we finally have a legislative proposal on the table for the third pillar of the banking union which is of course also the most difficult: the realisation of this 'european bank deposit guarantee mechanism'. i would like to stress, however, commissioner, that i was surprised to hear statements from the heads of some major european banks saying that we should not continue with the banking union because the european union has enough problems. the word "disintegration" was actually used. i think that here the european commission should talk more with these bank presidents to explain to them why the banking union is necessary. finally, another aspect that i want to highlight. in my country, banks are willing to sell packages of bad loans at 10% of the face value, but they don't have an opening for debtors to renegotiate loans with them, especially for housing.
i would like to join my speakers and the authors of the text. i think it is right that we are debating the human rights situation and the issues of freedom of speech in kazakhstan. as kazakhstan has signed a strategic agreement with us on enhanced partnership, as we have already said, we must be interested in how our partner regards fundamental human freedoms, the right to public expression, the right to assembly, etc. this is important at a time when kazakhstan is holding early elections in a few days. that is to say, in a few days' time, early parliamentary elections will be held in kazakhstan, and we should monitor whether they meet the basic principles of free and secret elections. it has already been mentioned here and the resolution describes in detail the suppression of the rights of journalists, bloggers, opposition politicians. we need to challenge kazakhstan if it wants to continue to be our strategic partner, and we want it to release these imprisoned politicians, bloggers, journalists. otherwise, we can't work together closely in the future.
blue-card question.– dear colleague, as you know, the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan still has to be ratified by some of eu member states’ parliaments. do you not think that, taking into consideration this situation, we should call on some of the member states’ parliaments to slow down the ratification so that kazakhstan implements the eu recommendations on the protection of freedom, freedom of assembly and the respect for human rights?
madam president, the circumstances of the tragic and brutal death of giulio regeni must be established by an independent and impartial investigation, although i regret to say that i doubt that the full truth will ever be known. in any case, it seems clear that the young man was not the victim of a simple crime but that his political views and activities were involved in his death. and this is unacceptable, even if it happened in a country whose social and security conditions are still very unstable five years after the revolution, and perhaps even more unstable than they were before the revolution. we cannot allow eu citizens to suffer this fate with impunity, and europe must show solidarity with italy and do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen again.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to stress the need to organise legislative and presidential elections by the end of the year in the democratic republic of congo. that's the constitution, and i think that line should be followed without any corrections. president kabila is faced with a choice between respecting the constitution and limiting himself to two terms, or he can give in to the temptation to stay in power at any cost. as for me, i hope he will choose the first path, that of respecting the constitution, because otherwise i fear we will see a repetition of the scenario in burundi or in other countries where this temptation to perpetuate oneself in power by trampling on constitutional provisions animates some of the political leaders. (applause) thank you very much.
i have to inform you that i was tasked by the president to start with an announcement that i will make to you immediately, relating exactly to this matter, but mrs le pen has asked for the floor, so first i will give her the floor.
now, because i have announced this and it refers to the matter we are discussing, i will read the text which has been given to me to be presented to you on behalf of the president: ‘as you will certainly remember during the voting session at the plenary sitting of 28 october 2015, the president was asked by mrs corazza bildt to verify the circumstances under which mrs le pen’s voting machine was being used in her absence. on 17 december 2015, parliament was informed of the president’s decision to impose a penalty on mr de graaff for his behaviour during the aforementioned voting session – that is for having used mrs le pen’s voting machine. the penalty consisted in the forfeiture of his entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of five days. moreover, after having heard various members and mr bay twice, the president has decided to impose a penalty on mr bay for his behaviour during the same voting session – that is for having used mrs le pen’s voting machine. it will consist in the forfeiture of his entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of five days. the member has been notified of this decision’.
we have taken note of your decision to contest the decision, but now mrs corazza bildt has asked for the floor.
the communique announcing the penalty for mr bay follows the establishment of the facts.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
that is adopted. so this matter is referred back to committee to allow the interinstitutional negotiations to begin.
the reporter. mr president, i propose to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution under rule 61, second paragraph, in order to proceed directly to interinstitutional negotiations on the basis of the adopted mandate.
that is adopted. so this matter is referred back to committee to allow the interinstitutional negotiations to begin.
the vote is over.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks last year, the tunisian economy has been hit hard and the european union has reaffirmed its support, taking concrete action to support tunisia's economic development. the union will thus provide tunisia with a duty-free tariff quota available for a period of two years, until 31 december 2017, of 70 000 tonnes in total, for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union, on a temporary basis, in the form of an autonomous trade measure, without increasing the overall volume of imports. the measure will bring important benefits to the olive oil sector, which indirectly employs over one million people in tunisia and represents one fifth of all agricultural jobs. by engaging concretely with the tunisians in supporting their economic development, the eu is also contributing to the promotion of democracy in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i have voted according to the commission’s proposal to parliament and the council. the tunisian economy has been devastated following the terrorist attacks of 2015. it is crucial for the eu to support tunisia through exceptional measures in order to boost its economy, and i fully support the quotas set by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of emergency trade measures for tunisia. following last year’s terrorist attacks the tunisian economy is facing serious difficulties and is in dire need of further assistance. i welcome the council’s decision to agree with the additional safeguards introduced by the ep in its plenary vote of 25 february 2016 such as the mid-term impact assessment. in this way a trilogue will be avoided and the measures will enter into force quickly.
in writing. ‒ the tunisian economy, already facing serious difficulties, suffered after the terrorist attacks of 18 march and 26 june 2015. i have voted for this report that has as its aim the temporary offering of a zero-duty tariff for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunisia and the resulting instability have prompted the eu's response to the need to continue to support tunisia in a concrete and specific way in its political and economic transition. the emergency trade measures are intended to improve the difficult economic situation facing tunisia following the terrorist attacks. it is important that those measures apply for a limited period of time and are without prejudice to the negotiations between the union and tunisia on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. the european commission proposes to grant tunisia, unilaterally and temporarily, a tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017, for the duty-free export of olive oil from tunisia to the union. olive oil is the main agricultural product exported by tunisia. this quota will enter into force as soon as the current zero duty tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes provided for in the eu-tunisia association agreement is exhausted. i support the eu's engagement in supporting tunisia's economic development, which also contributes to the promotion of democracy in this country.
in writing. ‒ the livestock sector accounts for 41% of total investment in agriculture, with a total of over 12 million animals worth eur 142 billion. harmonisation of the conditions for veterinary prescriptions, their recognition at member state level and the authorisation of other qualified persons to issue certain prescriptions contribute significantly to reducing red tape and to the rational use of veterinary medicinal products. in addition, taking into account technological developments, the use of electronic prescriptions facilitates the work of farmers. we take into account that antimicrobial resistance is a major risk factor for animal health and welfare and its effects are directly felt in human health. the prohibition of the use of antibiotics in prophylactic treatments contributes significantly to reducing the volume of medicines administered to animals. i believe that prevention is often more effective and less costly, and that the amount of drugs used in preventive treatment is much lower than in metaphylactic treatment. the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products must be adapted to the realities on the ground, must aim to reduce administrative burdens, take account of the needs of farmers and respond to the requirements of consumers. i believe that the vote in the envi committee was the necessary guarantee for this report to enter into the interinstitutional negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the impact of veterinary medicines on both animal and human health is of great concern. the use of medicines is closely linked to antimicrobial resistance developed in animals and, through the consumption of dairy products or meat originating from those animals, resistance is also transferred to humans. the main cause is the prophylactic administration of antimicrobial medicines to animals, sometimes used to improve performance or compensate for poor development. the report aims to limit the prophylactic use of antibiotics to situations justified by the presence of clear clinical symptoms. combating antimicrobial resistance is a priority for the eu as it aims to improve patient safety, and ms grossetête's report underlines the role of the union in creating a single action plan to tackle antimicrobial resistance. on the other hand, this report aims to create a framework to stimulate and support innovation in veterinary medicines, so as not to reduce the therapeutic arsenal of veterinarians. the industry needs encouragement to create new medicines and to bring them to the market for veterinary medicines, as it is relatively small and fragmented.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle, as well as the related pharmacovigilance process. this legislation is more ambitious in terms of provisions to combat antibiotic resistance, in particular it clearly defines the different forms of treatment (curative treatment, control treatment and preventive treatment) and prohibits the prophylactic use of antibacterial medicines. close consistency between the medicated feed regulation and the veterinary medicinal products regulation is therefore essential. the establishment of a list of important antibiotics reserved for human medicine that the commission wishes to achieve should only be done on the condition that it is based on sound scientific criteria. the sale of antibiotics (and, more generally, the sale of veterinary medicinal products requiring a prescription) on the internet should also be prohibited as it poses a serious risk to public health.
in writing. ‒ i would like to endorse the proposal and to welcome the alignment with the lisbon treaty. i support the decoupling of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products, to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. it is important to harmonise the requirements for a veterinary prescription and recognition of prescriptions across member states; to stimulate innovation and the development of new veterinary medicines; and to harmonise the periods of protection (and potential prolongation) of new data packages related to antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products. i believe the regulation will provide better access to veterinary medicines, take measures to fight antimicrobial resistance, reduce the administrative burden, and promote innovation and competitiveness within the sector. finally i support action to reduce the use of antibiotics, which may not be sold via the internet.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report since there must be a regulation that sets more efficient and effective access to veterinary medicines. moreover, such a regulation will also promote competitiveness within the sector, while reducing the administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ the commission published its new draft regulation on veterinary medicinal products in september 2014. i have voted for this report that will improve the existing rules on medicinal products for veterinary use set out in directive 2001/82/ec and regulation ec 726/2004.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. the measures contained in it, especially those concerning prophylactic and metaphylactic use of antibiotics and restrictions on internet sales, should help in the struggle against antimicrobial resistance. at the same time, the distribution of essential veterinary medicines throughout the eu should be increased and the administrative burden reduced.
in writing. ‒ antimicrobial resistance in both humans and animals is a growing health problem in the european union and worldwide. it is essential for both humans and animals to have a clear picture of how antimicrobials are used in order to be able to significantly reduce their use and put an end to all abuses. the responsible use of antimicrobials in the treatment of diseases of bacterial origin contributes to the control of diseases affecting the livestock sector. their abusive and excessive use in animal farms stimulates resistance, which can spread to humans in a number of ways, including through food. diseases can be prevented by implementing good practices in biosecurity, nutrition, hygiene and animal comfort. under no circumstances should an antibacterial medicinal product be allowed to be prescribed without a clear diagnosis of disease. it is necessary to ensure that the package leaflet of antimicrobials for veterinary use contains appropriate warnings and instructions, in particular clear definitions of the different forms of treatment (curative treatment, control treatment and preventive treatment), and to prohibit the prophylactic use of antibacterial medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ the report on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use aims at separating the marketing authorisations for medicinal products for human use from those for veterinary medicinal products, precisely to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary and human sectors. the initiative proposes that the new measures be targeted at the veterinary and human sectors and that the related fees be accessible to the veterinary industry, with the aim of promoting the development and availability of new types of medicines at european union level. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the needs of the veterinary sector differ significantly from those of the human sector, which is why these two areas should be treated separately, depending on the specificities of the sectors. the market for veterinary medicinal products is fragmented, given the multitude of animal species; therefore, veterinary medicinal products need to be addressed separately from those for human use.
in writing. ‒ this proposal to amend regulation no 726/2004 is closely linked to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. the commission's evaluation studies in 2014 identified the need to bring together all the rules on veterinary medicinal products in a single regulation in order to meet the specific needs of this sector. the market and needs of the veterinary sector are fundamentally different from those of the human sector, as we are dealing in the first case with a multitude of animal species, which results in a fragmented market. it is important to underline the role of the european medicines agency (ema) in the authorisation and supervision of veterinary products through the centralised procedure, as its tasks should apply to both medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products. the objectives of the two regulations adopted should therefore be interlinked so that the end result leads to the stimulation of competitiveness and innovation while aiming at reducing red tape and ultimately aiming at the availability of new veterinary medicinal products that combat the public health risks posed by antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ the veterinary medicines directive and the regulation laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency constitute the european union's regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products. it is important to provide for the application of the quality, safety and efficacy criteria laid down in european legislation to medicinal products authorised by the union and for the possibility to assess the benefit-risk balance of all medicinal products when they are placed on the market at the time of renewal of the authorisation and at any other time the competent authority considers appropriate. the european medicines agency should also have access to other sources of funding to support its work on public health projects, such as the innovative medicines initiative.
in writing. ‒ this proposal accompanies the new regulation on veterinary medicine products that will repeal and replace directive 2001/82 /ec, and amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. it must be amended to take account of the fact that centralised marketing authorisation for human and veterinary products is being decoupled so that the new regulation on veterinary medicinal products (com(2014)0558) will cover all routes granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products in the union – both at centralised and national level. in addition, it seeks to align provisions to the lisbon treaty and to introduce implementing acts to set the fee provisions – previously set by co-decision. i voted in favour of the report, especially since i believe the european parliament must be involved as co-legislator in setting the structure and level of fees payable by the industry to the european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ this regulation sets procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the european medicines agency (ema) is a long-needed institution. it is paramount that the european parliament, as co-legislator, takes part in establishing a structure and level of fees payable by the industry to the ema.
in writing. ‒ following an assessment of the functioning of the internal market in this sector, the commission published a proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicines under one regulation on veterinary medicinal products in september 2014. i voted for this report that will, among other things, align the regulation to the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ the proposal from the commission intends to align the legislation with the lisbon treaty, which provides for improved democratic oversight and transparency through the increased role of the european parliament in the legislative process. i welcome this report, and especially the emphasis it places on parliamentary scrutiny of the structure and level of fees payable to the european medicines agency.
i should tell you that some groups are asking for a roll call vote and some are not, so i am just implementing what has come from others.
i see your point. there are indeed amendments which are worth being checked like this. that is the point.
in writing. ‒ the data-driven economy has a number of benefits both economically and socially. the successful, data-driven economy can generate growth and boost employment through various economic incentives. the data economy is seen as a success story in the context of the high-volume data market's growth rate, which by 2017 will be six times faster than the global ict market, reaching a total global value of eur 50 billion. it is also seeing unprecedented growth, with 16 trillion gigabytes of data by 2020, indicating a 236% annual increase in data generation. at the same time, the benefits of a data-driven economy will drive an additional gdp growth of 1,9% by 2020. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the data economy has the potential to boost competitiveness at union level and to accelerate europe's economic recovery, as well as to drive increased investment and innovation in various key sectors.
in writing. ‒ the development of big data is an integral part of a new digital market and should ensure the development of innovative and competitive business models, respecting the eu data protection framework. however, large volumes of data can entail significant risks and challenges, in particular for fundamental rights (including privacy and data protection). a strong service provider base is needed to promote the benefits and assets of the integrated use of data for the economy and society and to promote trust in big data technologies among smes. the widespread application of big data services needs to be supported in order to improve efficiency in different economic sectors and to support new service providers. it is also important to create a one-stop shop to help smes make better use of their own and public data, while adhering to eu data protection legislation.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the data—driven economy, which will stimulate research and innovation on data while leading to more business opportunities and an increased availability of knowledge and capital, in particular for smes, across europe. the development of the digital world, beyond connectivity, needs common standards, interoperability, accessible platforms, high-speed networks and high—performance computing infrastructure. i therefore support the call on the commission to clarify its plan on how to support the development of broadband infrastructure, cloud computing, innovations in standards and a stable legal framework. i believe the commission must ensure that the framework for a data-driven economy is legally sound, respecting data protection standards, yet flexible enough to adapt to the changing environment of digital markets. finally, i would like to understand how the commission will encourage and support the member states in implementing training initiatives related to data handling and the development of the necessary skills.
in writing. i voted for the resolution 'towards a successful data-driven economy' because it is necessary to create, as soon as possible, a legislative framework for the digital single market, which will have a decisive impact on the future of smes. in the technology and innovation economy, smes will use big data to compete as global leaders in a data-driven economy. the eu urgently needs to prepare legislation on the value of data and how to use it to develop new investment models and to encourage economic growth. the european commission must accelerate the process of stimulating the emergence of new business and service models that can create many jobs in the coming years. in order to achieve this, the commission and the member states should implement the necessary regulations to guarantee increased investment in network infrastructure. without a strong network infrastructure that guarantees adequate data capacity and speeds, the digital economy will not be able to take off.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution, which expects the benefits of a data-driven economy at national and european level to have an impact on society and on all types of enterprise in the value chain. at the core of the digital single market strategy is the creation of a data-driven economy.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a data-driven economy is at the heart of the digital single market strategy and has the potential to help europe regain competitiveness in advanced sectors and accelerate europe's economic recovery. the commission and the european data industry have committed to investing €2.5 billion in a ppp to strengthen the data sector and put europe at the forefront of the global data race by maximising the potential of the digital economy. access to open data portals and electronic research infrastructures is a possible way to reduce the disadvantages that researchers and smes in peripheral regions may face. we call on the commission to adopt policies that remove excessive barriers in innovative sectors and stimulate investment in research and development and european standardisation. we also call for the creation of a future-proof regulatory environment that reflects the changing nature of the market, is technology-neutral, stimulates the creation of new businesses and the entry of new operators, ensures a level playing field and fair competition, while avoiding the burden of excessive regulation and ensuring full compliance with data protection and privacy rules. we welcome the commission's intention to review the eprivacy directive.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented development of new information technologies has led to a real revolution in the way we conceive of human society today. new devices have become part of our lives, as indispensable tools through which we communicate, work and spend our leisure time. at the same time, however, these technologies can also make a key contribution to the development of the economies of our countries and the european union as a whole. they can stimulate research and innovation, create new business opportunities, increase the availability of knowledge and capital, help in particular the development of smes and bring about the so-called 'data-driven economy of success'. the european commission created a new strategy on it databases in july 2014 to accelerate the transition to the information economy on the european continent. the resolution proposed by the european parliament on this issue highlights the persistent shortcomings in common standards, interoperability, high-speed networks, it infrastructure and consumer and data protection. this requires investment in broadband infrastructure, consumer protection, development of opportunities for smes, and effective innovation. the current resolution is a laudable initiative and deserves to be supported.
in writing. ‒ the situation in eritrea is characterised by serious violations of human rights and freedoms, amplified by an authoritarian regime based on fear of indefinite military mobilization, arbitrary detention, torture and other human rights violations. according to a un report on the human rights situation in eritrea, there are three issues that need to be addressed in order to ensure respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, namely: smuggling and trafficking, the increasing number of unaccompanied minors who are among the 5 000 persons leaving the country every month, and the exercise of economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to adequate housing. threats to the right to adequate housing have been manifested in forced evictions, which have intensified since the beginning of 2015. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the principles and values of the european union must be translated into joint action and efforts to respect human rights in the context of development cooperation. restoring the rule of law and promoting democratic governance in eritrea must be on the european agenda, given that the eu is founded on a firm commitment to the defence of human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ the deterioration of living conditions in eritrea through the curtailment of human rights and freedoms has caused the departure of over 9% of the population. every year, 5,000 people risk their lives trying to leave the country. the government's intentions to reduce legal and illegal immigration through shoot to kill policies and the diaspora tax are inhumane and contrary to freedom of movement. this is just one example, which indicates the extent and gravity of the violation of human rights and freedoms and the eritrean government's lack of concern for the well-being of its citizens. for this reason, i regret that the concerns expressed by the european parliament have not been taken into account by the commission, i denounce the resumption of the eur 200 million aid by signing the pin for eritrea and i ask the commission to monitor fully its implementation. i therefore strongly support the return of eritrea to a state of political normality, the establishment of a true separation of powers in the state, the development of democracy and the rule of law. i condemn the policies of european companies, which take advantage of the inequalities in the system, thus indirectly involving the use of forced labour. last but not least, i believe that respect for human rights and freedoms, access to education and the abolition of torture are essential elements of the healthy development of the state.
in writing. ‒ the european union decided to resume its development assistance to eritrea notably via a national indicative programme (nip) for eritrea of eur 200 million. scrutiny working group a of the committee on development of the european parliament, which i chair, called on the edf committee on 11 november 2015 not to adopt the draft nip pending further discussion. this is explained by the human rights situation in eritrea, that has long been deteriorating – civilians are regularly arbitrarily detained or arrested for a number of unjustifiable reasons – criticising or opposing the government, practising journalism, practising an unofficial religion, evading or deserting mandatory national service, trying to flee the country. eritreans fleeing the country now constitute the third largest group of refugees making the perilous journey to europe. however, our call upon the commission was not taken into consideration. i ask the european commission to review its scrutiny arrangements with the european parliament and to seriously consider how eu aid and resources can be best focused to address the situation and help bring about change.
in writing. ‒ the eritrean authorities have been lashing down hard on their citizens. this situation, where basic human rights are violated through harsh conditions imposed by the government, must stop. the use of the ‘diaspora tax’ is deplorable, as is the lack of freedom and the arbitrary arrests. as a matter of urgency, eritrea should ratify and enact the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ the human rights situation in eritrea has forced many women, men and children to flee the country, risking further abuses in the hands of smugglers and human traffickers, in order to reach safer grounds. the ones who stayed behind face an oppressive regime and severe problems with indefinite conscription, food security, restrictions, abuses and repression of all basic freedoms. i therefore support this resolution and strongly hope that the international community will use all diplomatic tools available to intervene before this crisis becomes even worse.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution, which calls for more transparency and good governance in respect of public finances and calls on the eu delegation to closely monitor the political situation in the country in order to make sure that the continuation of eu development cooperation is dependent on substantial progress being achieved in the areas of human rights and democratisation, in particular freedom of speech, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly.
in writing. ‒ the european union has become a champion of human rights protection internationally in recent years. in this regard, the european institutions have highlighted violations of fundamental rights in various parts of the world, encouraging the development of equitable democratic systems based on the sovereignty of citizens. the situation in eritrea has now become critical following the arbitrary measures of the authorities, who have sent a considerable number of people behind bars for criticizing the government, practicing independent journalism, practicing unofficial religions, not satisfying the mandatory military service or attempting to leave the country. a recent un report concluded that eritrea has one of the lowest human rights records in the world, with no immediate prospects for improvement. significantly, eritrean nationals are the third largest group of migrants heading to the european union countries in this period. in these circumstances, the union must act, with the resources at its disposal, to put an end to this situation, which is not favourable to the citizens of eritrea or to the member states. as representatives of the european citizens, it is our duty to support this resolution.
mr president, i was pleased to support this report, which describes the current situation in macedonia and deals with the process of that country's accession to the european union. i believe that in the long term we must offer the western balkan countries the possibility of becoming members of the european union. in the case of macedonia, i express my great joy and gratitude for the way macedonia is playing its role in the migration crisis and for the way it is guarding its border between macedonia and greece. it is a role for greece, which unfortunately is not able to properly guard its border. so this is another reason why we should support macedonia. why should we see it as a significant partner to the european union? i regret to say that it is unfortunately greece which is blocking the further process of accession by virtue of its name. i think that such trivial things should not decide whether macedonia becomes a member of the european union or not.
mr president, it is true that macedonia is facing its worst political crisis since 2001. it is also true that the voice of civil society in macedonia is increasingly being heard and is actively involved in addressing this crisis. destabilizing macedonia means blocking important projects, which delay the development of society. macedonia is making efforts to join and these should not be ignored. for years the commission has recommended to the council to give macedonia a date to start negotiations and the council refuses because of the intervention of greece. greece should stop downplaying these efforts and give full play to macedonia's integration efforts and activity. macedonia's involvement in addressing the migrant crisis is important, and we have already seen action taken by the authorities. the fragile situation of macedonia requires our help, along with the political commitments that macedonia has made. and we must keep our commitments to macedonia, otherwise we lose our credibility.
in writing. ‒ the report includes the latest developments in the country, takes note of the vote of the macedonian parliament on 23 february, which sets a new date for the organisation of early parliamentary elections for 5 june 2016, but regrets, at the same time, that there was no consensus among all parties involved. the report makes, for the first time, the recommendation towards opening accession negotiations, conditional on the full implementation of the june/july 2015 political agreement (the pržino agreement) as well as on the achievement of substantial progress on the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. the report reiterates that bilateral issues should not be used to block the eu accession process, but should be addressed in a constructive spirit as early as possible in the accession process, taking into account the principles and values of the un and the european union. negotiations with the eu have a positive influence on efforts to resolve bilateral disputes, generating momentum and mobilization for much-needed reforms, especially in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, strengthening multi-ethnic cohesion, and guaranteeing the credibility of the eu's enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ i take note of the decision by the macedonian parliament on 23 february to set a new date to hold early parliamentary elections on 5 june 2016. the fact that there was no consensus with the opposition party is highly regrettable and represents a missed political opportunity. further media reforms and inter-party talks may now be delayed until after the elections. i strongly believe all the political parties in macedonia should make efforts to create the conditions for credible early elections and that an all-party agreement remains essential to fulfil all elements of the pržino agreement. moreover, substantial progress on the implementation of the urgent reform priorities has to be made. bilateral issues should not be used to obstruct the eu accession process but should be addressed in a constructive spirit as early as possible in the accession process, taking into account the principles and values of the un and of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the recommendation to open eu accession negotiations for macedonia, as long as authorities will align themselves with the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. i believe that a great first step in this direction would be a cross-party effort to organise credible early elections.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that underlines the strategic importance to ensure continuity of support to the macedonian progress towards eu membership and stresses the area that need improvement such as public administration, transparency and the enhancement of professionalism, neutrality and independence at all levels.
in writing. – i support this report as it is in the interest of both the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to ensure continued support of macedonian progress towards eu membership. the agreement on 11 confidence-building measures with greece is encouraging. however, the findings of the rapporteur also suggest that there is still much scope for improvement in areas of media freedom, autonomy of the special prosecutor, oversight and control of intelligence services as well as corruption in state and local administration, party financing and public procurement. finally, to help cope with the big pressure of migration the commission should support the strengthening of border management capacity and enable the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to access relevant eu instruments and programmes to handle the migration flow.
in writing. ‒ the tense political situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has recently been a cause for concern for the entire international community. as a candidate country for integration into the structures of the european union, macedonia had, up to that point, a promising track record of peaceful interethnic coexistence, regulated by the ohrid agreement (2003). unfortunately, recent conflicts have diverted the country from this path. only the energetic intervention of the european union and the political groups in the european parliament prevented the situation from degenerating into violent forms. the signing in july 2015 of the przino agreement between the relevant political forces of the country, under the auspices of the eu, brought new hopes in the normalisation of the situation. the elections scheduled for june this year could bring some clarity to the situation. this resolution recommends making the eu accession process conditional on the implementation of the reforms agreed in the agreement. as regards the name issue, which greece has been pursuing for two decades, it should no longer be a barrier to the country's european integration. this document reflects the situation in practice and is useful for the positive development of the eu-macedonia relationship.
mr president, montenegro has opened 22 chapters, of which two are already partially closed. it's a big step towards the union. the visible effort made by the government in the fight against terrorism and islamic jihadism should be underlined. but to return to the country's core unresolved problem, that is corruption. adopting codes of ethics for judges will not change reality. these so-called soft laws cannot be applied and will not have effect in the countries of this region. there are no major corruption convictions, no serious and effective investigations into such cases and, as such, no confiscations. the adoption of legislation, especially when it is legislation that is fairly lax, so to speak, without sanctions, is useless. only reality and only the concrete effects calculated in the number of conviction files can show or prove the real fight against corruption. the same is true of organised crime, and money laundering is also an unresolved emergency in montenegro. i know it's hard, but it can be done! with determination and courage, and not with fear of the political class.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 report on montenegro captures the steady progress made in the accession negotiations. significant progress is noted in the reform of the public administration by the government in the period 2011-2016, with the depoliticization of the public administration being an important aspect in the process of accession and alignment with the values of the union. the principles of merit, depoliticization, accountability and transparency in the administration must be put into practice through sustained efforts, all the more so as the internal climate in montenegro is polarised. i welcome the remarkable progress made in strengthening the legislative framework to enhance the independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary, and in reducing the backlog for certain types of open cases. montenegro has also distinguished itself through its active involvement and constructive role in regional and international cooperation, including in the process of regional reconciliation. it has also made a significant contribution to crisis management operations within the common security and defence policy, showing a genuine interest in alignment with union principles, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the steady progress in the accession negotiations and the fact that this report highlights the further steps to be taken (most importantly in the fields of media freedom, anti-corruption, and the lack of constructive cooperation between government and opposition on eu matters). montenegro should further develop a solid track record on the rule of law and respect for democratic values, which is a fundamental prerequisite for eu accession. i truly hope that all political forces, in government and opposition alike, will re-engage in sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament. finally, i welcome the decision of nato to invite montenegro to join the alliance. nato and eu accession criteria are similar and, therefore, that nato accession will lead to a better preparedness in the eu accession negotiations. however, i believe that we have to make a clear that nato and the eu accession are two different processes.
in writing. ‒ i salute the progress made by montenegro in the negotiations for the accession to the eu, most notably in the fields of media freedom and anti-corruption.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for more parliamentary scrutiny over the accession process and stresses the need to improve its access to accession-related information. the report also calls on the government and prosecution service to intensify their efforts to fight impunity in war crimes and to demonstrate a more proactive approach in following up on outstanding allegations of war crimes while noting the improvements in the fight against high level corruption.
in writing. – the report highlights concern about gender based violence against women and girls, corruption and representation of ethnic minorities in public life and education, and it urges for more parliamentary scrutiny. however, montenegro has also shown positive signs of improvement in terms of strengthening and enhancing the judiciary and it is applaudable that the government is committed to expanding good quality early childhood education. i welcome and support this report, as it remains important to encourage montenegro in its eu accession negotiations while continuing to stress the need for institutional reform and democratic strengthening.
mr president, i voted for this report because i believe in the need for a banking union, which plays a key role in financing investment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. if banking risk is reduced, credit risks for smes are also reduced. i believe in the single surveillance mechanism, but it is necessary, obviously, to have quality surveillance. the over-cautiousness of the banking system should not result in all risk being passed on to customers, in particular smes. the conditions of financing for smes are very important in order to have access to financing and not to block innovation and re-technologisation. that is why i voted for the report and i am glad that the report sets out the commission's responsibility to ensure fair competition in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is an indispensable component of monetary union, being a key element for the creation of a genuine economic and monetary union. however, what is happening in the international economy is because of the inflexibility that the entire banking system has shown from the us to germany and from germany to russia. i think the circulation of money in the economy is of crucial importance. in addition, when unforeseeable situations arise in the relationship between debtors and banks, measures must be taken to support those in difficulty. the banking union has a central role to play in stimulating growth and job creation across all member states. moreover, it has a key role to play in ensuring stability and restoring confidence in euro area banks, strengthening financial integration and reducing risks in the european banking system. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the role of the banking union is fundamental to ensuring economic prosperity.
in writing. ‒ this is the first report by the european parliament on the banking union. it includes an assessment of the implementation of the fully operational single supervisory mechanism as of november 2014, the single resolution mechanism, tasked with resolution operations as of january 2016, as well as other challenges for the banking union, in particular the achievement of the third pillar through the creation of a european deposit guarantee scheme and further initiatives to reduce risks in the banking sector. the banking union is one of our key achievements since the start of the 2008 financial crisis, which can ensure safe and resilient financial and banking sectors, restore confidence among citizens and develop investment in the real economy. in the absence of these elements, the banking union cannot be considered as completed and therefore able to achieve its objectives and reduce risk.
in writing. ‒ banking union is one of our key achievements since the financial crisis in 2008 to ensure safe and resilient financial and banking sectors to restore confidence, investment in the real economy and a high level of protection for citizens from the failure of banks and financial firms. i have fully supported the first steps: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), operational from november 2014, and the single resolution mechanism (srm), fully operational from the beginning of this year. the third pillar – a common deposit insurance scheme – is unfortunately still missing, and work on a common fiscal backstop to be available as a last resort to support the single resolution fund has not yet started. together with the ssm and the srm, the capacity to afford a uniform and high level of protection of deposits, irrespective of their location, should be ensured in an effective banking union. in the absence of these missing elements, the banking union cannot be considered as completed and therefore able to fulfil its ambition and reduce risk. it should be our priority for the coming year.
in writing. ‒ this is the first report by the european parliament on the banking union. the financial crisis in 2008 reminded us that the european project is far from complete. we need a deep reform of financial regulation and supervision to ensure sustainable and job-creating growth in the european union. the first steps have been taken: the single supervisory mechanism, which has been operational since november 2014, and the single resolution mechanism, fully operational since the beginning of this year. the third important pillar, a common deposit insurance system, is in a deadlock. at the moment we can say that the banking union is not completed. that should be our priority for next year.
in writing. ‒ as a response to the financial crisis that emerged in 2008, the european commission pursued a number of initiatives to create a safer and sounder financial sector for the single market. these initiatives, which include improved depositor protection and rules for managing failing banks and stronger prudential requirements for banks, form a set of rules for all financial actors in the 28 member states of the eu. this set of rules is the foundation on which the banking union sits. i voted for this report that calls, amongst other things, for the implementation of the banking structural reform which was conceived to reduce systemic risk.
in writing. ‒ the banking union plays a key role in financing investment and therefore in stimulating economic growth and job creation across the union. this european parliament report on the banking union includes an assessment of the implementation of the fully operational single supervisory mechanism (ssm) as of november 2014, the single resolution mechanism (srm) in charge of the january 2016 settlement operations, as well as other challenges for the banking union, in particular the achievement of the third pillar through a common deposit guarantee scheme and additional initiatives to reduce risks in the banking sector. the banking union is one of the key achievements following the 2008 financial crisis to ensure secure financial and banking sectors and to restore confidence, investment in the real economy and a high level of protection for citizens in the event of the failure of banks and financial firms.
in writing. – in line with the rapporteur and the econ committee, i welcome the introduction of the banking union and the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism and single resolution mechanism for the eurozone in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008. i voted in favour of this annual report, as oversight over the implementation and development of financial supervision at the eu level functions as an important safeguard mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is one of the main gains from the financial crisis that hit the european union in 2008. this action by member states and european institutions has led to the strengthening of the financial and banking sectors, ensuring their safety and resilience, and to the restoration of confidence in banks, alongside investment in the real economy and a high level of protection for citizens. the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) in november 2014 and the single resolution mechanism (srm) represented the first steps towards the emergence of a new regulatory pillar for the financial and banking sector at european level. unfortunately, this pillar is not yet fully structured at present, in the absence of a common fiscal backstop to support the single resolution fund. in the coming years, the banking union needs to be developed in this direction by establishing a european deposit guarantee scheme (edgs). the current document is a first step in the right direction; therefore, i support its adoption.
the period for explanations of votes has expired.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european pig sector is indeed in a very tense situation. the main reason is a significant increase in production over the last two years. the fall of russia as an export market has aggravated the situation, but it is not the only cause. the commission has responded to this situation by granting private storage aid for pigmeat under the common organization of the market, and in january this year 90 000 tonnes of pigmeat were stored with a budget of approximately eur 27.6 million. the purpose of this measure is to withdraw meat from the market at short notice during periods of low prices at the beginning of the year and to return it to the market after the seasonal price increase in early summer, when the barbecue season is in full swing. this explains why the commission can only use this market measure for a limited period of time. if the quantity stored is too large, the negative effects exceed the market effects of the removal of frozen products. the recent stocking has stopped the seasonal fall in prices in january and thus had a direct impact on agricultural incomes. so the safety net worked. let me also be very clear: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of drawing up a proposal for a directive. however, they can support the necessary market adjustments. we're seeing clear signs of market reaction right now. in addition to the direct market support measures, the pig sector benefits from the solidarity pact adopted by the commission in september 2015. this includes the possibility of targeted measures in the livestock sector for a total volume of eur 420 million.as regards the sanitary restrictions on trade in fat, bacon and by-products imposed by russia, the commission already launched a wto procedure in 2014. although there is no official wto decision yet, all preliminary information from geneva indicates a confirmation of the eu position. this will undoubtedly strengthen the commission's negotiating position on market access. in conclusion, let me say that the commission is monitoring the market situation very closely and, as in the past, will take any necessary action in a timely manner.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, european agriculture is going through a very difficult period, caused by the embargo imposed by russia and the inability to find new markets. the pig sector is extremely affected. today, 1 kg of meat is produced for 1.25 euros and sold for 0.78 euros. this situation is intolerable, given that the price of meat on the shelf has not undergone correlative changes, asking us, not just rhetorically, who do farmers work for? certainly not for consumers! the recent measure taken by the commission to support this sector, namely private storage, even if it is superior to previous schemes, is not sufficient to stabilise prices and help pig farmers. moreover, in some member states this scheme has proven to be inefficient, whether in france or romania, given that there is simply not enough space for private storage. the commission should identify new mechanisms to support this sector and ensure that the money allocated really goes where it should. i also ask the european commission to reconsider its position on romanian pigs, which have been raised in a territory free of classical swine fever for almost eight years, and to allow free trade in them in the european area. it is unacceptable that romania has fulfilled all its veterinary obligations and the officials of the european commission do not take the time to analyse this situation and unblock it.
mr president, commissioner, the price crisis in the european pigmeat sector is, i am sure, well known. price pressure will lead to a decrease in the number of farmers raising pigs. i think that it lacks a long-term vision and i think that the role of the common agricultural policy is also to maintain the balance between supply and demand when external factors arise, as the embargo with russia did. we are talking in the european union about the internationalisation of business. what is being done in the framework of the agricultural policy to export to other markets, to third markets, not just within the european union? and, commissioner, perhaps in your portfolio you can tell us something: what is happening with the relationship and the embargo with russia? because the commissioner of agriculture is missing and i think he deserves a vote of no confidence. my country and other countries in the european union are traditionally farmers, they have this tradition of raising pigs and processing meat. we are talking here only about the effect, but we must also think about the long-term effect. there are jobs missing, commissioner! it's a whole segment that deals with pig farming and processing. what do you want to do next to eliminate the crisis?
in this debate, there are no interventions on demand and no blue card is accepted.
so no blue cards and no catch the eye in this debate.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for this inspiring discussion. i endorse every word you have said. i have to think about many of the things which you have raised here. soraya post said that we need to do a lot and we need to do it now. i think the situation is worse, because we are doing a lot – we have done a lot, we have invested a lot – and it obviously is not working because the situation is not improving. on the contrary, the situation is worsening. now, with the worsening of the whole atmosphere in europe and with increasing intolerance, the roma people are among the first to be attacked, mocked and abused. that is why we have to do better. i am thinking deeply about where the barriers are and why we are not able to achieve better results in terms of including roma citizens. i can see three main problems. one problem is resortism. we need to tackle all four areas with one series of well—targeted actions: health protection, labour, social protection and education, giving a helping hand to children and families with children. we see in member states that these sectors are dealt with by different ministries, and they themselves say that they understand and they need common action. this is already being reflected in the national strategies. i hope that a solution can be found soon. the second problem is that i have a feeling that we are implementing this policy for the roma but without their participation. we need to involve them more because action cannot be taken without them. here it is necessary to give more support to the ngos – some members also said this – and local communities which are in everyday contact with roma people. i have always criticised the fact that ngos are only given financing for one year at a time, because ngos are not the only ones working for the inclusion of roma. we have to tackle the permanent problem of finance. they keep looking for money to maintain their activities, and so we should also look at the financing of ngos, because financing for at least three years would help their projects become more sustainable. the last problem which i see is that eu funding should be better used. again we are speaking about short-term projects, but longer-term action is necessary to change the situation, because the task ahead of us is not a trivial one. we want to change the stereotypes and prejudices in society, and this cannot be done in the short term and with badly-chosen instruments. so let us all work together on this, and let us be brave enough to admit that what we are doing is not working. let us do better.
i'm not sitting down. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing.– 45 years ago, on 8 april, the roma representatives took a first common stand for the emancipation of our communities. we celebrate this and europe joining our struggle every year on international roma day. i consider it is also a moment to emphasise our european society should equally accommodate all its citizens and value diversity as its undoubted chance to permanent enrichment. it is our common duty to ensure solidarity, freedom, equality and fairness will become the real pillars of the future eu. fighting the social exclusion of marginalised communities such as the roma should be accelerated. ensuring equal access to development resources is the only way to break the poverty cycle threatening to entrap the roma for many generations ahead. our success stories should inspire non-roma and roma as well. because, as the majority populations need to learn more about us, we shall explore more our values and increasing potential to make a difference in europe. not least, we shall not forget it is our shared responsibility to educate our children not to be judgmental on others’ skin colour or cultural background. the way we educate them will reflect on the future they are building.
in writing. many of you may have heard of the deplorable and regrettable incident of unknown people painting offensive and crude anti-roma signs on the event tent set up in bucharest for international roma day. the police have launched an investigation, the romanian government and the head of state have expressed their outrage, several embassies have spoken out, and even the world bank has issued a statement condemning the events. i can only join the indignant reaction and say that such manifestations are not worthy of an eu member state where the roma community is facing serious social divisions. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the fact that in romania there is not only open discrimination against the roma community, but that violent messages like this one are often used against the hungarian minority, at sporting events, on wall posters, but also by some media outlets to incite and incite hatred. i would like to see the institutions of the state and politicians condemn these phenomena with similar vehemence, because we cannot allow this kind of behavior to become socially acceptable.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the annual reports 2012-2013 on subsidiarity and proportionality (2014/2252 (ini)) (a80301/2015).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. the european institutions and national parliaments have long been concerned with identifying the efficient mechanisms needed to adopt legislation that meets both national requirements and the general interest of the european union. respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the context of legislative procedures at european union level is the 'key' to a regulation that is as responsive as possible to the needs of the european citizen. the introduction and strengthening of procedures to assess compliance with the two principles at different stages of the decision-making process, public consultations for stakeholders to comment, and possible solutions to the problems identified are likely to add value to the legislative process. assuming that the two principles are the starting point for policy-making at european level, the commission is expected to further analyse in detail the extent to which they are being respected. however, a few observations are necessary. throughout the legislative process, it should be borne in mind that impact studies only cover the initial stages of the legislative process, as legislative proposals may undergo substantial changes in the adoption process. in view of these aspects and in order to fully respect the interests of european citizens, it is therefore necessary to carry out a verification... )
mr president, the principles of solidarity, subsidiarity and proportionality are important. they were created to ensure a balance of power, but also a means of representing local interests. but i disagree with what the rapporteur said. europe must not exist only where it is needed. the european union was created because it was necessary for the maintenance of peace, for better coordination between member states, for the well-being of european citizens, for common rules, for mobility, for the growth of europe's potential. the rapporteur said not to be afraid. i'm not afraid of europe. unfortunately, i have a feeling that yours is. i like europe and the european parliament, because here both voices are heard and the voices of our countries are equal. that is why i support the idea of increasing participation and expression of national and local views and better dialogue with national parliaments. but this must first be done through existing mechanisms and with a balance in this approach, not with populist messages.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for this interesting debate, and i thank members for their comments and questions on this important topic. i would like to use the opportunity to react on what mr pospíšil said. the proposal on the european prosecutor’s office is quite a good example of how the current commission works. the proposal received – i think – 11 yellow cards from the national parliaments and, as i said before, this commission has already visited national parliaments 270 times. at least 10 of these were mine, because i did not see the commission sending a letter to the parliament as the end of the matter. i felt it necessary to come back to these national parliaments and to explain how we modified the proposal by replacing the centralised structure with a decentralised one. the national parliaments could see that it is in my strong interest to explain and to convince them that the issue of subsidiarity has disappeared. this is merely how this works in one example: the case of the european prosecutor’s office. i feel it is necessary to create such a model, which will not replace national prosecution but will strengthen it. so this is another example of how we are trying to improve communication with the national parliaments and to ensure that we keep solid, mutual communication. i would like you to know that all the commissioners remain at your service to discuss the subsidiarity and proportionality aspects of proposals tabled by the commission, and once again i wish to thank the rapporteur and all the members involved for an excellent report.
in writing. i propose that the european parliament's rapporteurs consult the specialised committees of the national parliaments, in particular on legislative reports. in this way, political dialogue with national parliaments on the respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality can be opened much earlier. on this basis, the european parliament's rapporteurs can better base their positions on the european commission's legislative initiatives or on their own topics in their own-initiative reports.
thank you, mr president. and i want to start by congratulating the reporter for this document. adequate and functional regulation through the refit programme is essential to increase transparency and improve decision-making. the entrustment of a regulatory good governance portfolio to the first vice-president of the commission is, in this respect, a response to the requests made by the european parliament. in the face of increasing bureaucracy and declining trust in the european union, i believe it is important to strengthen civil and social dialogue in particular. in this respect, strengthening the role of institutions such as the committee of the regions or the european economic and social committee is a priority also mentioned in this report. i therefore welcome the extension also of the public consultation period to 12 weeks before, during and after the drafting of the legislation. in a more coherent legislation, we need to ensure first of all that member states implement the legislation, but above all that citizens understand it, approve it and are very well informed.
mr president, i can only agree with the view of the report on what a well-regulated single market should look like: one that avoids unnecessary legislation and bureaucracy, but also one that does not lack ambition and does not compromise on environmental protection, health and safety, consumer protection and social standards; one that recognises the importance of better implementation and enforcement of existing rules instead of creating new legislation before the old has even been tested; one that provides for an environment where competition can thrive and can lead to more growth and more jobs; one that does not lag behind in new emerging economic areas but provides for a strong development platform for the companies of the digital economy; and ultimately one that is able to secure the long-term growth of the european union for the benefit of its citizens.
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and, in particular, the rapporteur ms van bossuyt for this report. we agree that the single market is a cornerstone of european integration. in recent decades it has delivered more jobs and contributed to higher growth. we need to address the whole policy cycle, so last year the commission presented two main initiatives designed to do that: the better regulation package and the single market strategy. last may we proposed a better regulation package, covering the entire policy cycle from consultations and impact assessments to the adoption, implementation and evaluation of eu legislation. the package will help us make sure that eu laws tackle the real problems of citizens and businesses. from now on, eu laws should be adopted according to better evidence and a more careful assessment of their impact on the real world. this will help us regain the trust of eu citizens. more recently a new interinstitutional agreement on better law—making was negotiated by parliament, the council and the commission. we now have a strong political framework and a renewed commitment from the institutions in support of better regulation. after formal adoption it will be up to parliament and the council to work with the commission to ensure its timely and effective implementation. we need to ensure that we deliver the benefits for citizens and businesses in practice rather than just in theory. let us take the regulatory fitness programme as an example – the one which we discussed a while ago. the commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme will also play a central role in simplifying the body of existing legislation and reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens, especially for microenterprises and small and medium enterprises, and we will do so without weakening any of our important social and environmental goals. the second major initiative that we took last year is the single market strategy adopted in october. it has three key aims: creating new opportunities for people and businesses, encouraging and enabling the modernisation and innovation that europe needs and, above all, ensuring practical delivery. in some areas we need to launch new initiatives, such as introducing a service passport for key sectors of the economy, adopting a legislative proposal to prevent discrimination against consumers based on nationality or residence, or revising the mutual recognition regulation. however, it is not enough just to come forward with new initiatives. we need to ensure the effective and efficient application of the existing legislation. we need to design legislation better and to evaluate and fix things which do not work as they should. we also need to make sure that existing rules are applied correctly by the member states and backed by a smart approach to enforcement and the development of a compliance culture. for example, we will promote an enhanced partnership with member states through implementation plans for new legislation and yearly compliance dialogues with each member state. we all have the same aims. we have the same broad vision of what we want to achieve: we all want improved single market legislation and better delivery. let us work together – the commission, parliament and the council – to do this.
rapporteur.– mr president, currently, european citizens have limited knowledge about the eu and how its institutions work. according to a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll, 71% of european union citizens feel that they are not very well informed about the eu and 44% feel that they have a limited understanding of how the eu works. even more worryingly, 52% of europeans believe that their voice does not count in the eu. under these circumstances it is little wonder that citizens feel distant to or even increasingly estranged from the european project, become even more eurosceptic, and perceive democratic deficits in the decision-making processes of the union. therefore, enhancing dialogue about the eu in our schools and other educational institutions is crucial in order to bridge the long-standing gap between the european union and its citizens and to restore their faith in the merits and necessity of the european integration process. this is even more important in the current context of the ongoing refugee crisis and of serious threats to fundamental human rights and democracy due to the recent terrorist attacks. the report ‘learning eu at school’ highlights that the main role of education is to train fully aware and active citizens in an increasingly complex, multicultural and integrated europe and should therefore equip all learners with solid knowledge about the eu and in-depth understanding of its functioning and concrete added-value. an eu dimension in education should also encourage learners to critically reflect on european matters and how these influence their country and their own activities. this will empower them to form well-informed and balanced opinions, exercise their democratic rights and responsibilities, value diversity, intercultural and interreligious dialogue and be active and responsible citizens. with this in mind, the report stresses that the eu should become more visible in teaching materials and extracurricular activities at all levels and in all forms of education, including non-formal and lifelong learning. teaching about the eu should reflect both the role of member states in the development of the eu and the influence of the eu on national developments. in this context i would like to stress the importance of a european approach to the teaching of history in developing a reflective awareness of the past and a critical ‘culture of remembering’ based on european values. another important aspect the report focuses on is the strengthening of citizenship education with the aim of enabling learners to acquire the competences they need to live and actively engage in pluralistic democratic societies and make their concerns heard. core elements to be taught include tolerance, awareness and understanding for other cultures as well as democratic values and human rights. until now, a majority of member states has progressively integrated an eu dimension into their curricula and into teacher training, but gaps and disparities between and within member states continue to exist. much more could be done, for example, with regard to curricula, teacher training, textbooks and teaching methods. therefore the report strongly encourages member states to review and update their education systems and all forms of eu-related curricula content, to support all possibilities of conveying more information about the eu to learners as well as to teachers and other educators through formal, non-formal and informal learning, and to fully exploit and complement eu financial instruments, programmes and initiatives in this regard. at the european level, existing possibilities offered by the eu programmes in the field of education and culture should be fully used to promote active citizenship, cultural awareness, intercultural understanding and other valuable key and transversal competences. in this regard, the report calls for adequate financial support for these programmes, a greater focus on their qualitative outcomes and wider access to mobility, paying special attention to teachers and other educators, young people with different socio-economic backgrounds and vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. in addition, platforms such as eu twinning, the school education gateway and epale for adult learning can be used for the development and exchange of teaching materials and projects related to the eu and its institutions, as well as citizenship education. the report calls on the commission to continue to support member states in their efforts to develop and promote an eu dimension in education while respecting their competence in the field, also by providing a common framework and guidelines for learning about the eu and by actively conveying information to key stakeholders and citizens. i want to thank, first of all, the committee and all the people that helped on this, and the shadow rapporteurs.
mr president, education is the basis of society and i congratulate the rapporteur on his approach to including the concept of the european dimension in school curricula and the exchange of good practice between educational institutions in the member states. as a member of the committee on agriculture, i would like to reinforce an idea expressed in this report, namely that the union must constantly keep pace with new societal and technological challenges and that member states must ensure the continuous harmonisation of vocational and technical education programmes in order to meet these challenges. the rural environment is the main driver of economic development and therefore agricultural education must be an important component of vocational and technical education programmes at european level.
in writing. education about the european union is very important in building the european project. european citizens, and especially young people, need to understand the benefits of the eu, to know how the european institutions work, and to learn the techniques for participating in the european decision-making process. unfortunately, today we do not know enough about each other, and our education system does not introduce young people to their rights as european citizens. with a greater knowledge of the history of the european union as a whole and with more information about european current affairs, young people will regain their confidence in the european institutions that were built with so much difficulty to ensure the peace and development of our continent. that is why, as a university framework, and as the initiator of several debates on the need for a common european agenda on the eu, i strongly support this report which i hope will generate clear solutions from the european commission and the member states for the standardisation and popularisation of eu education.
madam president, education is and must remain a fundamental right of all european citizens, regardless of their background, and there should be no constraint to prevent participation in programmes and initiatives which subsequently allow people of all ages to enter the labour market. the erasmus programme has been a success in terms of mobility and there is a need for member states, together with the commission, to guarantee equal access to mobility actions under erasmus+ for all categories of persons, gender equality for non-preferential access to all educational programmes, including technical ones, to be respected. i believe that the member states and the commission must coordinate their efforts to reduce language and cultural barriers, to improve the functioning of mobility programmes for young people and teachers, and to optimise the transfer of knowledge and experience.
in writing. as a young mep, i cannot help but appreciate that the erasmus+ programme encourages the mobility and preparation of young europeans for the labour market. why would you do that? because youth unemployment remains dangerously high at 22.1 percent. because the demands of employers in the labour market are not entirely linked to a uniform system of skills acquisition. at the same time, after repeated attempts to persuade the european commission to supplement the funds allocated to programmes to reduce youth unemployment, we have come to the conclusion that we have a difficulty in understanding the seriousness of the problems facing young europeans. i support the adoption of this report, also because it asks for exactly what i asked the commission for - a set of up-to-date statistics showing the effectiveness of erasmus+ and other programmes that encourage labour mobility in the eu. last but not least, i would like to call on all political groups not to ignore multilingualism, so that the erasmus+ programme becomes accessible in all the official languages of the eu, as it should be.
member of the commission.– madam president, i welcome the european parliament’s own-initiative report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions, and i would like to thank rapporteur tomašić for the report. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), which as you know is the structural support tool for the common fisheries policy for the period 2014-2020, was the fruit of intense negotiations between the european parliament and the council. thanks to the fund, member states can and probably will implement most of what is requested or proposed in the report. the fund permits a higher intensity of aid – 80% – for all operations related to small-scale coastal fishing. some examples are: young fishermen starting out in the sector; health and safety; diversification; partnerships between scientists and fishermen for the purposes of training; lifelong learning; marketing and processing; and innovation. however, it is the responsibility of member states to decide, under the respective operational programmes approved in late 2015, how to translate their strategic preferences into concrete support to their small-scale coastal fishing fleet. the figures for small-scale coastal fishing fleets are telling. they account for only 8% of gross tonnage yet they represent nearly three quarters – almost 75% – of active fishing vessels. they account for only 12% of the value of landings and 16% of the gross value added, yet they represent 48% of the total number of jobs and 36% of the full-time equivalents, which means that a significant proportion of the jobs are part-time. this last element implies that fishing is not the only, or even the main, source of income for many small-scale coastal fishing fishermen and families. in any event, it is a fact that small-scale coastal fishing vessels are fundamental for the viability and resilience of coastal communities dependent on them, and i fully agree with that view. however, it is also a fact that industrial or large-scale fishing fleets are also based in coastal areas and that they represent most of the value of landings, gross value added and full-time equivalent jobs within the eu. thus, these are at least as fundamental for the viability and the resilience of coastal communities as small-scale coastal fishing fleets. furthermore, the simple fact that some 36 stocks in the atlantic are now operating at maximum sustainable yield shows that large-scale fleets can also fish in a sustainable way whilst producing a lot of added value and social benefits. in view of the above, we need to support all fishing fleets and avoid instituting an asymmetric fishing policy, even though we do recognise the equal importance of this small-scale coastal fishing. regarding control requirements, let me recall that small-scale coastal fishing can already benefit from preferential conditions of support from the emff for the installation of control equipment on board. as to the proposal to relax control requirements for the fund during the review of the control regulation, we have to be particularly careful in ensuring that this does not jeopardise fishing resources in the coastal band. the coastal band is a strip about 12 nautical miles wide where most small-scale coastal fishing occurs and where most member states grant preferential access rights to vessels. in particular, there is a serious risk that further relaxing regulatory requirements on small-scale coastal fishing could encourage fishing by additional vessels and worsen crowding in the coastal band, especially in areas where there is already a lot of pressure on regulated and unregulated stocks. i am convinced that such a further relaxation would backfire both in terms of economic viability and environmental protection. regarding the definition of small-scale coastal fleets, according to the emff regulation, article 3(14) covers fishing vessels of an overall length of less than 12 metres and not using towed fishing gear. it was subject to intense discussions during the trilogues on the emff regulations. many alternatives, including the criteria proposed on point one of the report, were proposed, analysed and discussed, but in the end it was not possible to come to an agreement on any new definition, and the existing one was proposed. a regionalised approach to the definition could have some merit but would also risk creating an uneven playing field. in conclusion, all fleets, including the small-scale coastal fishing fleet, are fundamental for the continued viability of coastal areas. a successful cfp is the best possible way to ensure the environmental, economic and social sustainability of eu fisheries and coastal areas. there is a lot of public support for that. finally, be aware that relaxing further control requirements and allowing over-capacity to develop or increase in the 12-nautical-mile zone would clearly threaten the resilience of these communities. i have no doubt that the co-legislators will get back to us on these issues as part of the planned revision of the control regulation. thank you for your valuable comments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for the way in which we have collaborated in the preparation of this report, which i regard as a clear message of support for the european commission, while also underlining the priorities of our committee in relation to the negotiations on the new international agreement. as you know, almost 64% of the world's waters remain outside the scope of the convention on the law of the sea, so the protection of the environment, marine biodiversity and the sustainable exploitation of resources are not covered by this convention, which is over thirty-five years old, which applies the principle of freedom of the seas in a world where things have changed, where the economy is diversified, the need for food and resources of the population is very different. as such, this convention is to be subjected, we hope, in the near future, to amendments that will bring it into line with present reality. as regards subsequent agreements, the most important agreement to which we wish to refer is the one concerning fish stocks, concluded in 1995. this agreement specifically addresses highly migratory fish stocks and those outside national jurisdiction. the agreement is in force, it is a good agreement, there are certainly still matters that can be discussed in relation to the effects of this agreement, but our committee recommends that the provisions of this agreement be firmly upheld and maintained unchanged in the future legal instrument. in 2004, the un general assembly decided to begin the first forms of negotiation of this convention. subsequently, on 6 june 2015, the un general assembly decided to open discussions and negotiations in preliminary commissions. the committees will start work in 2016 and we hope to have a first report in 2017. the purpose of these committees will be to prepare the substantive negotiations on the development of an international legal instrument, subordinate to the convention on the law of the sea, which will fill the gaps and complement the agreements currently in force. i would like to stress in particular the important role played by the european commission, as one of the voices that took this initiative in relation to the working group, but in this context i would like you to know that there are states that want the exclusion from this agreement of certain types of activities that take place outside national jurisdiction and in particular fishing, which puts us in difficulty, the european commission and the parliament not agreeing with this exclusion. in short, the inclusion of fisheries in this new international, legal instrument is a priority for us for the reasons stated earlier, but with a very firm amendment that this will not lead to the renegotiation of the 1995 fish stocks agreement, but will ensure its inclusion in a new international framework. i also recommended the use, extension and enhancement of regional fisheries management organisations. they are part of the 1995 agreement, some of them have worked less well, but in general the work of these regional organisations is worthwhile. we suggest the united nations find a way to motivate the states less involved in this agreement. as regards marine protected areas, they cannot be successful unless there is coordination and collaboration between all areas of activity and unless they are set out in an overall logic of biodiversity protection. we hope that the new international instrument will include an institutional structure for such decision-making.
madam president, the panama papers have shown that there are no global control mechanisms capable of ensuring equal treatment for all citizens and all companies. the market doesn't provide equal opportunity for all, but only for those who are strong. beyond the deeply immoral behavior of those who hid their money in tax havens, away from paying taxes in the countries where they make profits, what's worse is that the world has lost what could be done with those funds. according to information in the romanian press, the hidden sums are equivalent to the health budget in romania and higher than the budget allocated to young people. i'm sure similar situations exist in many european countries. restructuring tax havens, paying tax instead of making profit and supporting the economic environment can be mechanisms through which we can solve this situation. i would remind you that the financial transaction tax has been supported by over half a million citizens and that it can prevent this kind of event from happening again in the future. the european commission must react and we expect firm proposals.
madam president, corina crețu, member of the juncker commission, has been accused by politico collaborators and journalists of not fulfilling her mandate. don't just go to the office. she spends her time in her home country or turns official visits into private stays. mr. italianer's colleagues from cont asked him to account, but his answers were not convincing. the commission apparently wants to hide these serious breaches of professional ethics. cretu reacted in a very personal style. politico journalists also wrote about the brochure she printed with european commission money. it's not a defense, but a cult of personality that ceausescu would be envious of. published in romanian, the booklet explains that europe exists only because cretu works. i asked the commission today for an explanation in a written question and i am waiting to hear whether mr juncker agrees with the spending of european money for the strictly private interest of a commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the zika virus is a threat to the international community. a recent study shows that this virus can cause a wider range of brain disorders than previously thought. we're already seeing an increase in cases of microcephaly, guillain-barré syndrome, and other neurological disorders potentially associated with this virus. there are too many questions about these connections and this requires strengthening zika surveillance and at the same time improving research methods. time is precious for rapid diagnosis, proper treatment, and finding vaccines for pregnant women. the world health organization, whose anniversary just came last week, has already taken a number of steps to support the affected countries. significant cases of zika virus infection have been reported in several european countries and we must take into account that we are facing the risk of an outbreak in europe as well. we have to be prepared to deal with a situation like this. it is very important that healthcare professionals are vigilant, but also that the public is aware of the risks.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i have heard it here and i and you and everyone: some say to open the gates, others to close the borders. do you think that both the commission and the council have done everything necessary to ensure clear, fair and uniform procedures for the reception of refugees and only refugees? don't you think we need to explain clearly and transparently what are the methods by which we can solve the refugee problem without compromising the security of either party, neither the refugees nor the europeans?
mr president, commissioner, although you released eur 500 million last autumn to help the dairy and livestock sectors, this amount was very small and we are still in a structural crisis on the agricultural market, especially in dairy, pigmeat, fruit and vegetables. the current context on the european milk market requires that we pay particular attention to milk producers, who are the most affected. at the agriculture and fisheries council in march you recognised that we are in crisis. but the measures taken are still timid and without the pressure from the member states we would have had even less. farmers urgently need to be helped by measures that respond to their cash needs today. we also need long-term countercyclical measures that can act to stabilise the market. we urgently need urgent crisis measures, based on the reality in each member state.
mr president, commissioner, the agricultural sector in the european union is going through the most difficult period in recent years, even though some measures were taken in 2015 that were considered exceptional. both the livestock and the crop sectors have been badly affected, firstly by the russian embargo, by the inability to find new markets, but also by unfair practices which, unfortunately, could not be effectively controlled. the european commission must abandon reactive intervention policies and provide medium- and long-term forecasts for agricultural policies so that supply and demand are kept in balance. there is a need to create rapid mechanisms that allow farmers to adjust their production to market requirements. the development of any sector, without taking into account the absorption capacities of the market, only burys that sector under its own weight. at the same time, i call the european commission's attention with all responsibility to the unacceptable state of passivity towards the massive phenomenon of land grabbing, especially in eastern europe, in the hands of large landowners. this leads to the destruction of small and medium-sized farms and will certainly turn the locals into slaves on their former lands, with immeasurable consequences for economic and political stability in the medium and long term.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank all those who have contributed in the debate on this crisis in agricultural markets. i want to assure you that i share your concerns. however, we can only take action on the basis of the framework of the legislation that was agreed by you and the council in 2013 and which i am implementing from 1 january 2015. i would like to say to mrs noichl that i am not ploughing my own furrow in this regard. i am exhausting all of the tools that have been given to me within the law and the budget. i do not of course need to go into the details about the backdrop to the situation that we have in terms of the market. we have a global oversupply in our milk and pig meat products and we have the russian embargo, which has not helped and has resulted in a reduction of eur 5.2 billion of exports to that destination. but i have responded on a number of issues, and i just want to go through them again. i have responded on intervention ceilings by increasing the ceilings by 100% for skimmed milk powder and butter. i am invoking article 222 for the first time to bring about a stabilisation of milk production and to bring about greater balance in demand and supply. this can be funded through the existing targeted aid measures that have not yet been spent by some member states or by state aids. i would draw your attention to the flexibility that we are giving in respect of state aids for the first time. measures under state aid rules, which have been doubled from eur 7 500 to 15 000 per farmer per annum, can be used for the purpose of the promotion of agricultural products or the closure of production capacity if they are notified and approved in the agricultural state aid guidelines. holdings may be granted rescue and restructuring aid if they fulfil the conditions that are set out in the horizontal state aid guidelines. member states could also be allowed to set up access to finance schemes under which aid in the form of loans or guarantees is granted in order to bridge liquidity gaps. where farmers have undertaken at least to freeze their production during a certain period at a level that has been attained in comparison to a reference period to be determined by the commission, the aid could be granted in the form of direct grants. so i am saying to members who have raised the issue of how we are implementing article 222 and creating some balance between supply and demand in the milk sector that we are giving the maximum flexibility in order to implement that measure. as i have said already, i allocated eur 420 million in a targeted aid package last september and only eur 162 million has been drawn down to date, so i wonder what the member states are going to do with that money, although i know that some of them are considering structural reforms as well. we have more money for new market opportunities, for new promotion measures; we have new outlets for these particular funds; and we have more money for school schemes that mr tarabella has successfully brought through parliament with your support, which is now eur 250 million per annum, an extra eur 50 million in the budget. we have eur 30 million being invested in humanitarian assistance, and this is from products in the european union as well. we allow flexibility for the modification of the rural development programmes to target sectors that are under financial pressure, and of course we have the voluntary coupled support, particularly in areas of national constraint. so we are not renationalising agriculture. we are providing eur 56 billion from european taxpayers every year to farmers. so i disagree with mr takkula, who talked about eur 3 billion for turkey and nothing for farmers. eur 56 billion every year for farmers is a significant amount of money. with regard to trade deals, it is essential in relation to the mercosur negotiations on trade that we convey a consistent measure as governments. so it is important that the agriculture ministers and the trade ministers are working in tandem and that the eu is ready to make a meaningful contribution in agriculture. but we would ask – and i would ask, as agriculture commissioner – that mercosur should moderate its expectations to what is manageable and acceptable to the eu both politically and economically, particularly in these difficult times for some of our sectors. i want to assure mr nicholson that the yellow card and simplification agenda is very much intact and that we are proceeding to give farmers who make minor errors the benefit of the doubt in relation to the yellow card system. simplification proposals will emerge again for implementation shortly. i would say to mr häusling that i have outlined what i have done on article 222, so i am seeking measures and implementing measures that are containing production and bringing about a greater balance in supply. so i do not accept it when you say that that i am doing nothing about bringing about a balance in the marketplace. you are advocating that we should not go to the extreme of opening new markets. well, we are going to continue to open new markets and that will be part of the solution in creating further opportunities and outlets for our agricultural products. in relation to structural change and funding that structural change, the targeted aid measures and the state aids that i have just outlined are applicable in relation to structural change if regions in germany – or indeed germany as a whole – would wish to participate. everybody wants access to more money. as i said, we have already allocated some money which has not been utilised yet, so it is very difficult for me to go looking for more money when that money has not been expended. secondly, i would be interested in the views of parliament in relation to the use of the crisis reserve. should it be used? what are the circumstances in which we should use it? i would be interested in your views on that. in relation to the food chain, i note the unfair trading practices report which was published in january, and i do not agree with the conclusions that the report came up with. i look forward to the proposals of members of this house to be submitted to the agricultural markets task force, which will report next september. i would urge you to make your proposals sooner rather than later. i would also mention that this group is looking at financial instruments and new tools which we can use to protect farmers in the context of price volatility. these include hedge funds and also insurance products. regarding withdrawal prices in relation to fruit and vegetables that were mentioned by ms aguilera garcía and ms herranz garcía in relation to spain, this is certainly under review. we also have to extend from 30 june – i am trying to find the money to do this – the impact of the fruit and vegetable sector in relation to the russian ban. so these issues are still under review and we will be making a decision shortly. i would like to conclude by saying that i very much recognise the difficulties that exist across the markets, but this is the second package of proposals that we are implementing in order to reflect the concerns that have been expressed here. i hope that these will have an immediate impact during the course of 2016 to ameliorate the financial difficulties of our farming community.
in writing. as specified in the question, despite the measures in 2015, there has been no visible improvement in the european agricultural policy. i have already raised the question of the common agricultural policy in this house and, as you were not present, commissioner, i repeat it. what are your and the commission's plans to make a debut on other non-european pigmeat markets if the embargo with russia is extended? you have informed us that there are opportunities for the export of pigmeat to other markets, but you are talking about a distant horizon. we talk about now, today, tomorrow, next week. meat products cannot be sold at cost either. commissioner, we need to increase the speed of intervention, we need to measure the impact immediately. new, precise measures are needed, targeted where needed, at producers. products from non-european markets, from the usa, often of lower quality and undermining european producers, are entering the internal market.
in writing. for i don't know how many times in this forum, we talk again about the crisis in the agricultural sector. despite all the assistance measures in 2015, some agricultural sectors are deeply feeling the effects of the russian embargo. prices are collapsing, farmers are facing shaky incomes, while input prices are rising. the common agricultural policy must respond to these challenges and we must find together instruments of intervention to guarantee the stability of the european agricultural sector. the commission also needs to find solutions to eliminate unfair practices in the food chain and to ensure that producers are paid decently for their work. i hope that when the cap is revised we can put in place instruments to ensure that we do not have a perpetual crisis in european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the report on the arrangements applicable to products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states proposes to regulate imports of products originating in these countries. it is envisaged to provide duty-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries which do not fall within the category of least developed countries in the period preceding the conclusion and application of the economic partnership agreements. those rules are based on the simplification and transparency of union law, in order to ensure easy access by citizens to their rights. in the light of the fact that the market access regulation has already been amended nine times since its adoption, a clear and simplified codification of the relevant legislation is necessary. i think it is particularly important to create a concise, clear legal framework that enables citizens to make use of their specific rights, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal refers to the reform of the market access regulation (mar). i voted for a transparency and simplification of eu legislation, after this draft has undergone numerous changes since its adoption in 2007. access to the eu market free of customs duties for products originating in acp countries is a matter of course.
in writing. ‒ this is a codification and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (the market access regulation) governing imports of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument provides duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-least developed countries (ldc) acp countries in the run-up to the conclusion and application of respective wto-compatible economic partnership agreements (epas) before the 1 october 2016. i support the continuation of duty free quota free access to the eu market for those non-least developed countries (ldc) whilst epa negotiations are continuing. continuing market access for these countries at this time is to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding a codification and recast of the market access regulation that governs imports of products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states.
in writing. ‒ on 1 january 2008 the provisions of the market access regulation entered into force as a temporary unilateral scheme before the conclusion and application of the revised economic partnership agreements. the commission proposal concerns the codification and recast of the market access regulation, governing imports of products originating in certain acp countries. i have voted for this report that aims to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of reforming the regulation on the arrangements applicable to products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements (epas). since 2002, the union has negotiated epas with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states in the form of seven regions comprising the caribbean, central africa, east and southern africa, east african community, pacific island states, southern african development community and west africa. these agreements must be in line with world trade organisation (wto) obligations, support regional integration and promote the progressive integration of acp economies into the regulated international trading system, thereby encouraging their sustainable development and contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in acp states. however, given the particular sensitivity of agricultural products, it should be possible to adopt safeguard measures where imports cause or threaten to cause dysfunctions in the markets for such products or in the mechanisms regulating those markets.
in writing. ‒ the european union places a strong emphasis on developing global free trade, with a view to diversifying the supply of products for consumers worldwide. at the same time, the union supports the economic strengthening of states in less developed regions such as africa, the caribbean and the pacific (acp). for these reasons, the eu supports the integration of these countries into the world trade organisation (wto), but is aware that they need a period of preparation of their economies to become compatible with the developed economies in the wto. in these circumstances, the council decided as early as 2007 to exempt from customs duties certain products originating in developing acp countries. the extension of this measure until the adoption of economic partnership agreements between these states and the wto was considered necessary precisely in order to facilitate the development and economic reform of those states. this document takes note of the extension of the period of validity of the measures for the exemption of products from those countries, as well as of a number of amendments to bring the legislation up to date. i believe that these measures are necessary to set an example of good international cooperation and i support the adoption of the document.
in writing. ‒ fisheries is an important economic sector that requires responsible and sustainable policies. there are a number of fisheries partnership agreements signed by the european union, whereby the eu commits to providing financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights in the exclusive economic zone of the state with which it has signed the agreement. one of the most important agreements in this area is the eu-greenland app with the government of denmark and the local government of greenland. the new protocol strengthens the cooperation between the union and greenland by being a mixed agreement, providing eu vessels with access to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland eez. the current protocol provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17.85 million per year, which includes support for the fisheries sector at administrative level, but also in terms of development and scientific research. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the new protocol offers significant economic benefits to both parties, being an important pillar in the development of sustainable fisheries policies, including the regulation of responsible exploitation in the greenland area.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, thus strengthening cooperation between the european union and greenland. i voted for an extension of the existing agreement for a period of 5 years, during which the annual financial contribution amounts to a total of approximately eur 18 million. provision is also made for a pilot fisheries programme for species not covered by the protocol and for scientific cooperation in the field of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the renewal of this agreement is in the interest of the european union, as the economic benefits are mutual and in line with the objectives of the cfp.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol is considered to be in line with the objectives of the cfp, to respect the principle of available surplus and the obligation to follow scientific advice. it strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources, including through financial support (sectoral support) for the implementation of programmes, in particular for enhanced monitoring and combating of illegal fishing, as well as the support of the local fisheries sector, including the generation of local employment opportunities. the new protocol ensures improved value for money for the eu by aligning the level of fishing opportunities with the effective level of utilisation; it provides for at least one annual meeting of the joint committee, at which the commission and greenland review the implementation of the fpa/protocol, and, if necessary, adjust the programming of sectoral support/financial contribution. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in recent years the european union has signed a series of fisheries partnership agreements. i have voted in favour of the most recent fisheries partnership agreement that covers a period of five years and provides an annual financial contribution of eur 17 799 987 per year to greenland in exchange for fishing rights.
in writing. ‒ several fisheries partnership agreements have been signed by the eu in recent years. these sustainable fisheries agreements with non-eu countries are negotiated and concluded by the commission on behalf of the eu. i voted for this report that will provide a financial contribution of eur 17.8 m each year from the eu to greenland in exchange for fishing rights.
in writing. ‒ the greenland agreement is the third agreement of importance to the eu in terms of economic value. it is in the interest of both the eu and greenland to renew the protocol, as it provides significant economic benefits to both parties and contributes to ensuring coherence with eu fishing activities in other areas of the region. in july 2015, the european commission adopted the proposals for the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution from the eu of eur 17,8 million per year. this amount is: (a) over eur 13 million per year for access to greenland's fishing zone; (b) eur 2,9 million per year corresponding to the additional package mobilised by the eu to support greenland's fisheries policy; and (c) eur 1,7 million as an annual reserve for additional and new fishing opportunities that can be accepted by the eu subject to scientific advice and surplus resources. this protocol is also of strategic importance for the activities of union vessels in the fishing zones of other important bilateral partners in the north-east atlantic, in particular norway and the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the fisheries protocol between the eu and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, as it unequivocally supports the conclusion of the protocol. this new protocol is consistent with the common fisheries policy (cfp) and is fair and necessary for both parties. the protocol provides for access to greenland's fish resources by vessels flying the flag of an eu member state, and the eu commits to pay eur 17.85 million per year for fishing opportunities over a period of five years. the previous protocol with the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland generated a direct and indirect added value of approximately eur 1,6 for every eur 1 invested by the eu. in this respect, i believe that this protocol should be supported and its repetition in other situations should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relations with third countries and entities have developed strongly in recent years. the relationship with greenland has always been characterised by openness and enhanced cooperation in areas of common interest. although formally dependent on the eu member state denmark, greenland is not part of the territories under the jurisdiction of the european institutions, but enjoys a special relationship with the union. as greenland's main economic activity is fishing, which accounts for almost 90% of its exports, an agreement between the eu and greenland in this area was considered necessary as early as 1985. in recent years, due to the revision of european fisheries policies, the duration of the agreements has been reduced from 10 to 6 and 3 years respectively, the last one being in force from 2013 to 2015. the implementation of a new fisheries protocol for the period 2016-2020 required three rounds of negotiations and concerns the fisheries of several species for which the union has allocated approximately eur 18 million, of which over eur 13 million for access to greenlandic resources, almost eur 3 million for supporting fisheries in the region and the remainder for the reserve. the implementation of this agreement, which supports sustainable development and jobs and combats illegal fishing, deserves to be supported.
in writing. ‒ the draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china envisages the regulation of certain aspects of air services. international aviation relations between member states and third countries are traditionally regulated by bilateral air service agreements. it is therefore intended to replace certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air service agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the most important clauses are the designation clauses, which replace the traditional clauses with an eu designation clause, allowing all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment, and the safety clauses, which ensure that the safety provisions of bilateral agreements apply in situations where regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than that designated by the air carrier. the compatibility clause also prohibits anti-competitive practices. i voted in favour of this draft decision because i believe that the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services contains coherent provisions designed to ensure a secure, mutually favourable legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the amendment to the agreement which replaces certain provisions of existing bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, which were in breach of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees equal treatment for both nationals and members of the host state.
in writing. ‒ international relations in the field of air transport between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral agreements on air services. the court of justice of the european union estimated in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in bilateral agreements between member states’ air services were contrary to the legislation of the european union. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state, but whose ownership and effective control is not vested essentially with this member state or its nationals. the court found that this constituted discrimination against carriers of the union in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is a violation of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. the agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with an eu designation clause, permitting all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment. i therefore gave a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement changes some provisions related to safety, competition and taxation in the 15 bilateral air services agreements between the european union and the macao special administrative region.
in writing. ‒ bilateral air services agreements govern international aviation relations between eu member states and third countries. i have voted for this report that will replace certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements between the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china and eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china is the most effective instrument for aligning all existing bilateral air service agreements between member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china with union law. the objectives of these agreements are to provide all european union air carriers with non-discriminatory access to air routes between the european union and third countries and to align bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries with union law. the proposal also provides for a simplification of the legislation. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will respond to a fundamental objective of the union's external policy in the field of aviation by bringing existing bilateral air services agreements into line with union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it supports the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china on certain aspects of air services. the conclusion of this agreement was necessary given that the court of justice of the european union has ruled that certain provisions of bilateral agreements concluded by member states are contrary to eu law. in this respect, this agreement rectifies this situation and prohibits anti-competitive practices.
in writing. ‒ air transport is one of the areas where international cooperation is essential for the smooth running of current activities. the european union has been pursuing greater coordination of air services in recent years, both within the territories of the member states and with third countries. in the latter area, bilateral agreements have been concluded with various states, but a number of problems remain regarding discrimination between air carriers of eu countries established in the territory of other states and carriers from those states. this is why special agreements have been concluded between the eu and third parties to avoid this type of discrimination and to regulate fair conditions of safety, competition and taxation. one of those third parties is the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the eu has negotiated an agreement to replace the 15 bilateral agreements previously adopted, building on its traditionally good relations with the territorial entity. the european parliament is the forum for approving the entry into force of these much needed air services agreements. i therefore support the adoption of this document in its current form.
in writing. i voted for the ep recommendation on the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. the recommendation follows the commission's negotiation of the agreement which replaces certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. this agreement was signed on 23 november 2013 and required the council's approval by the ep for its conclusion.
in writing. ‒ the application of a minimum standard rate in all member states is intended to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the minimum rates are justified by the fact that the vat applied at the place of origin rather than at the place of destination still applies for cross-border trade and for distance sales below a certain threshold. the value added tax directive therefore provides that until 31 december 2015 the standard rate shall not be less than 15%. the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to comply with the minimum standard rate provides for retrospective maintenance of the principle of a minimum value of 15% for the standard rate of vat, by proposing to extend the current provisions by three years. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a minimum standard rate should be applied to ensure the protection of the internal markets.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal to maintain the minimum value of 15% for the standard vat rate and proposes to extend the current provisions until 31 december 2018. i voted to give member states the possibility to carry out vat reforms, aimed at reducing the standard rate. as in all member states, a standard minimum quota provides a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's view that the extension of the time limit for maintaining a minimum value of 15% for the standard vat rate until 31 december 2018 allows for a more comprehensive debate on vat rates in the context of the future vat action plan. it is beneficial for the eu to establish guidelines for future activities and features of the definitive vat arrangements for intra-eu transactions, with a view to adapting the existing rules to a definitive regime characterised by the principle of the place of destination.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the commission’s proposal to retroactively maintain the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15%, and i support a more comprehensive discussion on vat rates in connection with the forthcoming action plan on vat. the commission’s 2016 action plan will set out the directions for future work following the achievements attained since the 2011 communication on the future of vat. it will in particular set out the main features of the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade that the commission wants to propose and the reforms it envisages to adapt the existing rules on vat rates to a definitive regime characterised by the destination principle.
in writing. ‒ the importance of this report is that a minimum standard rate applied in all member states - as is currently the case - provides a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market. in the area of value added tax, the minimum rates are justified by the fact that vat applied at the place of origin rather than at the place of destination still applies for cross-border trade and for distance sales below a certain threshold. given that all member states currently apply a standard rate higher than 15%, the current provisions providing for a minimum standard rate of 15% also provide a margin of manoeuvre for member states by allowing them to carry out vat reforms aimed at reducing the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates.
in writing. ‒ the standard rate of vat could not be set lower than 15% in any member states starting 1 january 1993 as was stipulated in the directive 92/77/eec. the commission proposal aims at a system of tax harmonization within all eu member states. i have voted in favour of the renewal for 3 years of the vat directive until 31/12/2018.
in writing. ‒ the standard vat rate among eu member states may not be less than 15% as provided in the vat directive that was introduced from 1 january 1993 until 31 december 1996. this directive has been extended five times already and has been into force until 31 december 2015. i have voted for this report that will extend the vat directive for a period of three years, until 31 december 2018. this vat directive represents a transitional system in view of establishing the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that maintaining the minimum value of 15% for the standard vat rate provides a useful safeguard for the proper functioning of the internal market of the european union. the report also shows that all member states currently have a standard vat rate of more than 15%, and that maintaining a minimum rate gives member states room to reform. at the same time, the imposition of a minimum vat rate avoids situations of unfair competition between member states, as the european union market becomes increasingly interconnected.
in writing. ‒ vat is a major and growing source of tax revenue in the eu. however, in its current form, the system does not provide guarantees for an efficient collection to the benefit of european citizens, nor does it fully prevent unfair competition among member states. in this context, i believe that a minimum standard rate applied in all member states, as has actually been the case so far, is essential in safeguarding the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the strategic cooperation agreement between the federative republic of brazil and europol provides for an exchange of information which may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and assistance in certain criminal investigations, excluding exchanges of personal data. the main purpose of the agreement derives from the importance of the fight against organised crime, with brazil being a country that has distinguished itself through its continuous efforts in combating organised forms of illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other activities related to cybercrime, and in the field of counter-terrorism. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that strategic cooperation between brazil and europol would intensify efforts to combat organised crime, as it is an important pillar in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ with the olympic games in brazil coming up, which will take place this year, strategic cooperation between brazil and europol is absolutely necessary. brazil is experiencing a significant increase in the fight against organised crime and a direct exchange of information based on data from brazilian structures is a necessity. we voted to usher in a new era of organized crime.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to authorise the european police office (europol) to conclude an agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol, which may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical, or classified information, excluding personal data. i voted in favour of the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to authorise europol to conclude an agreement on strategic cooperation with brazil. the agreement concerns the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. however, it is very important to mention that this excludes personal data.
in writing. ‒ international cooperation agreements with third states or international organisations are approved by the council after having consulted the european parliament. i have voted for this report regarding the strategic cooperation agreement with brazil that will aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and europol. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal prosecution procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. such a strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so that the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. we support the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil as it would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider global cooperation and the intensification of action between states and international organisations to combat organised crime to be objectives of the utmost importance for the european union and its partners. the events of the last few years have shown us that the lack of communication between the structures in charge of our security has led to the loss of thousands of human lives. the report adopted today thus endorses the strategic cooperation between brazil and europol, which enhances the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information with the aim of preventing and combating crime, and also creates the framework for cooperation in the fight against terrorism, which is being carried out by an increasing number of states.
in writing. ‒ brazil is considered by europol as increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, such as drug related crimes, credit card fraud, illegal immigration, illegal trafficking of human beings, as well as cybercrime. furthermore, brazil is relevant in the area of counter-terrorism and asset recovery and the 2016 olympics are expected to lead to an increase in criminal activities. therefore, there seems to be an urgent need for europol to increase its strategic cooperation with brazil, which would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation. thus, i supported the proposed legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i followed the rapporteur’s recommendation to waive the immunity of hermann winkler.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ the report on fisheries issues under the international agreement on marine biodiversity in the areas outside national jurisdiction highlights the need for a comprehensive global regime that better addresses fisheries issues. given that seas and oceans cover 71% of the earth's surface and contain approximately 97% of the planet's water, and the marine environment is home to a significant part of the world's biodiversity, increased attention is needed to protect and conserve marine biodiversity. the new agreement thus envisages the creation of certain tools to empower all actors involved, but also the strengthening of capacity and the exchange of information, both between member states and between the eu and third countries. it is also recommended that a legally binding international instrument be established under unclos for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction. i welcome the progress made by the un on the issue of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, voting in favour of this report and expressing my continued concern for the conservation of marine habitats and the sustainable development of this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of supporting the position and objectives of the european commission, which is engaged on behalf of the member states in the negotiation of this new international agreement. an important aspect of the report is the inclusion of fishing activities among those regulated by the new international legal instrument. regional fisheries management organisations must also be extended and become more important under the new international agreement. the existence of marine protected areas can only be guaranteed if there is coordination and collaboration in all areas of activity. in this regard, it is very important that this new agreement includes an institutional decision-making structure.
in writing. ‒ given that the european union plays an important role on the international fisheries scene, but also that the oceans play a fundamental role in many of the earth's systems, including the climate, and are the framework for many human activities such as fishing, energy production, transport and trade, i support and reinforce the rapporteur's idea of including fisheries in this new instrument.
in writing. ‒ blue growth has to be one of our main priorities, as pressure on the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity is constantly increasing. in recent decades, human activities at sea have multiplied. the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment. fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the marine economy, but we must be determined in tackling the environmental problems and the need for sustainable development. i am therefore in favour of an international approach in order to manage pollution, human activities and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity. responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to sustainable development and a healthy marine eco-system; fishing must be integrated into this vision of the future of the sea that is blue growth.
in writing. ‒ nowadays, marine activities are developing and multiplying at a fast rate, with the pressure on marine biodiversity constantly increasing. i agree with the rapporteur that the solution for these issues should come from an internationally legally binding instrument, and this can be foreseen in the near future.
in writing. ‒ in order to tackle pollution and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity the un published a paper addressing the importance of protected waters of the world during the rio de janeiro un conference on environment and development that took place on 3-14 june 1992. i have voted for this report that stresses the need for a comprehensive global regime to better address the issue of conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it, in the form adopted today, expresses both a clear message of support for the position and objectives of the european commission, which is engaged in negotiating this new international agreement, and an exposition of the priorities of the parliamentary committee on fisheries in relation to these negotiations. i think it was very important that the european parliament should express its views clearly on the forthcoming un negotiations, in order to give the commission the mandate it needs to represent the eu in these negotiations. the most important point in today's report is the inclusion of fisheries in the new international agreement without reservations. as regards marine protected areas, they cannot be successful unless there is coordination and collaboration between all areas of activity and unless they are set out in an overall logic of protecting marine biodiversity. in this regard, it is very important that this new agreement includes an institutional structure for such decision-making.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nicolai report on fisheries issues under the international agreement on marine biodiversity in outermost areas - un convention on the law of the sea and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. fishing has intensified recently, but so have related marine activities, and therefore the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity is continuously increasing. i am pleased that the un general assembly and the ad hoc working group have managed, despite strong opposition, to make progress on the issue of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, with the intention of creating a legally binding international instrument. i hope that the new agreement will include tools to empower all actors involved, because without these tools there can be no expectation of real progress or real efficiency.
in writing. ‒ fishing is a fast-growing economic activity, both at european and global level, which can generate sustainable development for society and, by implication, stable jobs. the development of this activity must, however, take account of the conservation of marine biodiversity and limit pollution and other adverse phenomena that may occur in the maritime space. as most of this area (64%) is governed not by national laws but by the law of the sea, the international community is directly responsible for the observance of the rules adopted in this area. these are, first, the un convention on the law of the sea, adopted in 1982, and, on the basis of that document, the international agreement on marine biodiversity in the areas beyond national jurisdiction, including fisheries issues, adopted in 1995. by 2017, it is expected that binding instruments on fishing activities in international maritime space will be adopted. the european union can only support these measures, which are in line with the principle of 'blue growth' of maritime space. the sustainable development of the world's fisheries is one of the important resources for achieving healthy economic growth, generating jobs and food for the society of the future. i therefore support the adoption of this document.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on the un convention on the law of the sea: fisheries issues. the un addressed the importance of protecting the world's waters in the document called agenda 21, published following the un conference on environment and development held in rio de janeiro in 1992. it demonstrated that there was a recognition at international community level of the need for an international approach to manage pollution and the increasing threats to marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to intra-union trade and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products aims to harmonise trade in this field and to standardise the official controls to be carried out on breeding programmes, taking into account both the cross-border nature and the principle of subsidiarity. current zootechnical legislation promotes free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources. however, at present, union zootechnical legislation is organised vertically by species, which is why similar provisions have been concentrated and worded in clearer and more coherent language, precisely to avoid their transposition into national legislation creating barriers to trade. the proposal therefore contains a number of new provisions describing the relationship between breeders and breeding societies, provisions on the acceptance of breeding animals and artificial insemination, on performance testing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to create a coherent legal framework that allows citizens to exercise their rights in a transparent regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ farmers should have the right to know whether the reproductive material they purchase comes from a cloned animal or its descendants. we voted for the principles of transparency and accountability, thus ensuring the preservation of the genetic diversity of the breed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the consolidation of all directives on zootechnical legislation into this regulation, because the health and quality of life of animals must be taken into account by all those involved in the zootechnical sector
in writing. ‒ europe has a rich variety of breeds of domestic farm animals, constituting the largest genetic population of farm animals. those breeds were selected by generations of farmers and breeders to be better adapted to their region, more productive, stronger, thus, creating local breeds that are part of our heritage. breeders’ societies are at the core of the preservation and improvement of our breeds and clear rules are needed in order to better protect their actions and the breeders themselves. i strongly support the inclusion of zootechnical and genealogical rules governing the conservation and improvement of native or endangered breeds, beside the general rules on the preservation and improvement of animal breeding. i welcome the provision of a definition of the concept of ‘breed’, as i consider that, in order to create legal certainty, such a definition was needed.
in writing. ‒ one of the main pillars on which the eu’s food security is based is the breeding of livestock and their genetic material. the commission’s intention is to standardise all the directives concerning the zootechnical legislation on different species into a single body of law in order to complete the single market. i have voted in favour of this report that will allow major european breeds to be exported taking into consideration the biogenetic diversity in europe.
in writing. ‒ livestock breeding contributes to the economic and social development of the area in which it takes place and also represents one of the pillars on which the eu’s food security is based. i have voted for this report that reiterates the fact that efforts to achieve competitiveness, in particular to allow major european breeds to be exported internationally, should not jeopardise local breeds which are a part of the biogenetic diversity of europe.
in writing. ‒ livestock farming is one of the important sectors of agricultural activity in the eu member states. the pursuit of this activity implies compliance with certain zootechnical and genealogical conditions concerning reproduction and germinal material derived from the various species of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals existing in the territory of the states of the union. those conditions concern the use of high-quality genetic material, obtained as a result of long-term hybridisation activities carried out by european farmers and regulated by substantial legislation at european level. this document proposes to unify this legislation, in particular as regards the recognition and publication of lists of professional organisations, breeders' associations and private structures, the registration and classification of animals in databases on herds, genetic specimens and protected species, performance testing and genetic evaluation, and the zootechnical certification of animal specimens and their genetic material. this codification will contribute to the conservation and enhancement of local and threatened species and to clarify the rights of farmers within the union. this is a significant step forward in this area, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ a well-functioning breeding sector is essential for eu agriculture, with a potential value-add of €1.89 billion. at present, european zootechnical legislation aimed at promoting free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material is organised by species (cattle, pigs, sheep and goats) and there is a basic directive for each species. the purpose of the proposed regulation is to establish uniform rules on trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, with a view to promoting sustainable breeding programmes for the improvement of breeds and the conservation of genetic biodiversity of domestic animals. the idea is to avoid obstacles that could arise from the disparities between the existing rules. it also lays down rules on imports of breeding animals and their germinal products from third countries and stresses the need to preserve breeding animals in danger of extinction. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on trade and imports in breeding animals and their germinal products.
in writing. ‒ i spoke against this resolution because it is another step towards making quotas permanent. as i have said on other occasions, i appreciate that the ability of member states to objectively meet their obligations when it comes to the relocation of refugees must be taken into account. i believe that the final solution lies outside the borders of the european union and not within it, where we can only have temporary solutions!
in writing. ‒ a comprehensive eu approach to migration, ensuring coherence between internal and external policies, is absolutely necessary. we voted for such a strategy, which would prevent the production of similar humanitarian crises in the future. full respect for human rights is a core value of the eu. the report highlights the need for a binding legislative approach to the transfer of refugees, the obligation of member states to fulfil their obligations on urgent transfer measures, the need for technical and financial assistance to member states to make reception centres as functional as possible, and the vulnerability of children and their rights.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there must be a comprehensive approach to migration at european union level, ensuring coherence between its internal and external policies, based on solidarity, but also on better coordination between member states.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support a fundamental overhaul of the dublin iii regulation, in favour of a centralised union system for allocating responsibility for all those arriving in the union who are seeking international protection fairly among the member states – treating each asylum seeker as someone seeking asylum in the union, and not in an individual member state – based on fair and objective criteria along the lines of those used in the recent urgent relocation decisions. moreover, i welcome the call for a permanent, robust and effective union response in search and rescue operations at sea in the context of a union wide humanitarian operation. finally, i believe the union should establish more general rules governing the entry and residence of third country nationals seeking employment in the union to fill gaps identified in the union labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. i consider the priority to be securing the external borders. the most simple and effective way of avoiding loss of life in the mediterranean sea is to block ships at gunpoint. an effective contribution to the de-escalation of conflict in the areas of origin of refugees is needed. reform of the union visa code regulation, revision of the blue card, strengthening of the capacity of the frontex agency in respect of fundamental rights, including by third country authorities, and involvement of easo in agreements with third countries are actions that need to be regulated at european level in the coming months. the european asylum system remains another area to be regulated. the negotiations on the smart borders package also need to be accelerated. as regards legal labour migration, i believe that the eu should regulate the entry and stay of third-country nationals seeking work in the eu as soon as possible. the unregulated influx of economic migrants should not be justified by the reason of the demographic decline in the eu. the unemployment rate among young people is around 20%, therefore the gaps in the labour market must be filled primarily by these young people.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that underlines the fact that solidarity should be the basic principle upon which the eu’s action on migration is based with the first priority to saving lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it shows the complexity of the migration issue, while at the same time succeeding in highlighting the main problems the eu has in managing this situation. i believe that the moral and legal obligation to search and rescue people whose lives are endangered by the routes they choose to enter the territory of the member states in an attempt to escape the path of war is paramount. this obligation is directly linked to the need to combat the smuggling of migrants and to create legal and safe routes of entry into the eu. the development of these routes will help to reduce the incidence of accidents and give member states a clearer overview of the real situation. it is also very important to underline the need to review the dublin iii regulation and the importance of a common solution at eu level without which this problem cannot be managed.
in writing. ‒ the report produced by the libe committee reinforces the idea that only trans-party cooperation can respond to the crisis we are facing in the mediterranean. our aim is to help those who migrate to europe, but also to help ourselves to manage this exceptional situation. in other words, we need compassion and solidarity, but also a set of measures that will responsibly regulate the flow of migration in the long term. the high numbers of migrants and refugees, and the reactions of the societies to which they arrive, prove that we need a centralised european system for welcoming and integrating newcomers. i salute the work of my colleagues in considering these issues and i give my vote to this project.
mr president, i am in favour of checking how european funds are used, of strictly checking these projects, especially those involving large sums of money - and that is part of the report. i think that when it comes to particularly large investments, it is necessary that, by the middle of the implementation period, the european commission strictly verifies whether the objectives of that project are being achieved, whether things are going well, and takes corrective measures if they are not going well. that's because we don't want to throw money out the window, and we don't want it to end up in the pockets of politicians or people in government who don't care about the public good. these projects are for the welfare of the people and the development of their country. sovereignty should not cover up fraud or the non-application of european laws under the pretext that we are a sovereign country and as such the commission has no right to see, to worry about what we do with european funds. no, the commission has to do these checks.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental guiding principles for the european union, on which the exercise of competences must be based. the 2012-2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality underline that compliance with these principles has been closely monitored by the european union institutions as well as by national parliaments. the active participation and deeper involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years has therefore led to increased awareness of the principles on which the eu is founded. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the foundation of all public policies, and it is important that the european institutions and national parliaments continue to promote a culture of subsidiarity across the eu. in this respect, the 'yellow card' procedure has proved to be an appropriate instrument to influence eu decision-making, especially in 2012-13, but there is a need to duplicate these instruments through a constant exchange of information between national parliaments. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality is essential to ensure a dialogue that facilitates citizens' access to the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i believe in a strong europe, which is capable of acting and of making the lives of european citizens better. this report follows a different aim and i will therefore not support it. i believe we need to consolidate better law-making procedures, to simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. the legislative process already takes two years. mid-term evaluation and evaluation at the end of the legislative term would make the work of the european parliament much harder, longer and add more bureaucracy. i don’t support the introduction of green card and red card procedure for national parliaments. further subsidiarity check and full impact assessment to be undertaken at the conclusion of the legislative negotiations would also make the process much longer.
in writing. ‒ we need a strong europe and i don’t agree with the direction in which this report is going. we need another europe—friendly strategy for subsidiarity and proportionality. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the annual report 2012-2013 regarding the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality to be fundamental principles of the eu and to be at the heart of the european union. as the document adopted today also states, the constant evolution of the participation of national parliaments in the european legislative process is one that has led to an increase in the visibility of these eu guiding principles, namely subsidiarity and proportionality. i also appreciate that the report recommends that the european institutions and national parliaments continue to promote a culture of closeness to local communities through an annual interinstitutional debate, but also by integrating into legislative texts several positions formulated by national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the annual reports on compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the european union. the exercise of the european union's competences must be based on these principles, moreover - just as provided for in article 5 of the treaty on european union. the eu can intervene in areas not falling within its exclusive competence only if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states at central, regional and local level. at the same time, union action should not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties. we must therefore make cooperation between national parliaments and the european institutions a priority. the current exchange of views and control practices on these principles are not optimal. we believe in a strong europe that is able to act and to transform the lives of european citizens for the better. eu action must be directly proportional to the need to achieve the commonly agreed objectives. anything beyond that can be seen as an excess of control. we therefore believe in a strong europe, but at the same time we believe that it is the decision-making power of the member states that makes us stronger.
in writing. i voted for the report on the annual reports 2012-2013 on subsidiarity and proportionality. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has also included in the outcome document the recommendations of inta, which has noted the importance of the common trade policy, in which the eu can take advantage of its own stature to maximise the impact in terms of negotiations, and of the eu's economic relations with third countries and regional organisations, for economic growth in europe and job creation. moreover, inta stressed the need to clarify, in relation to the principle of subsidiarity, the division of powers when trade policies have consequences on investments other than foreign direct investment, namely portfolio investments, as some controversies persist in the case of current free trade agreements. the commission also noted that the commission had not provided any evidence that the union industry would be able to benefit from the exemption.
mr president, this report deals with important questions concerning the way in which the measures taken to achieve the common market are applied, implemented and verified. i would like to say that it is very important to look at how the legislation is transposed in the member states in terms of regulating the common market, but also the internal implementing rules are very important, because often the internal implementing rules of a law completely change the law, the purpose of the law, the core of the law and the objectives of the law. it's important the flow of documents, it's important the way decisions are made, how many people have to sign for a decision. all this to remove any bureaucracy and any extra time for the normal application of these rules, these european union acts, which are implemented in the member states and which regulate the common market.
in writing. ‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme aims to strengthen better regulation procedures, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens, and to move towards good governance, based on evidence-based policy-making, where impact and ex post evaluations play a key role, without replacing policy decisions. this programme is a focal point of the commission's new strategy for better law-making, contributing to the improvement of legislative practices. impact assessments are therefore an important tool to support decision-making in all eu institutions and play a significant role in better regulation, which is why it is essential that member states take both impact assessments and ex-post assessments seriously. greater involvement of regional and local authorities is needed both in european policies and in the application of administrative simplification and red tape reduction instruments. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the refit programme is a fundamental component in simplifying eu law and strengthening good governance.
in writing. ‒ the actions provided for in the refit programme should be seen as a continuous process, ensuring that the legislation in force at european level is fit for purpose, contributes to the common objective of the legislators and meets the expectations of citizens, in particular employees, businesses and other stakeholders. reducing bureaucracy, removing administrative barriers that block the economy is a first step towards better development and job creation. i voted for refit actions not only for the short-term effects, but also for the added value of the legislation in the long term, such as eliminating harmful effects on the workplace.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme aims to cut red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve the design and quality of legislation and is therefore essential for the legislative work. under refit, the commission is able to screen the entire stock of eu legislation on an ongoing and systematic basis to identify burdens, inconsistencies, ineffective measures and identified corrective actions. i am satisfied with the fact that we managed to secure the social dialog and role of social partners and consumer, environmental, social, health and safety standards. i welcome the fact that we managed to rebut conservative and anti—european calls for an independent high-level better regulation advisory body. moreover, we managed to limit the request for sunset clauses and fight the introduction of any net targets and the ‘one in and one out’ principle. i expect that unnecessary burdens are being cut in order to promote employment in europe. this does not mean that employment standards may be reduced or that precarious employment contracts may increase: the compromise on the sme test ensures that there will not be this risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because we need proper and functional regulation. the measures proposed in the report are aimed at simplifying eu legislation and reducing regulatory costs, which is very important in the current context. i support the need for legislative simplification and reduction of red tape, but this is especially necessary at national level, where in many cases over-regulation occurs. the refit programme would have a positive impact on the stability of the regulatory framework and would support economic growth and job creation. the removal of the obligation to establish and adopt nutritional profiles is not a bad thing. this would avoid the creation of a new set of regulations that would, in practice, duplicate the provisions of regulation no 1169/2011 on food information for consumers, which made the nutrition declaration mandatory for all food products, thus providing consumers with complete information on the basis of which to make informed healthy choices. the commission's concern should be more about controlling non-european products that enter the market without rigorous control, destroying european producers through dumped prices.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report regarding the refit programme (regulatory fitness and performance programme) that aims to reduce bureaucracy, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the refit (regulatory fitness and performance programme) programme represents a key component of the commissions strategy for better law—making. i have voted for this report that should prioritise the development of certain measures and should focus on the quality of legislation and better enforcement of existing legislation rather than on the number of legislative acts.
in writing. ‒ better regulation must result in the best possible quality of european legislation, meeting the expectations of citizens and stakeholders and ensuring that public policy objectives, including those relating to consumers, the environment and social and safety standards, are not compromised. the commission should focus on the quality of legislation, on better implementation of existing legislation, and not on the number of legislative acts. the quality of legislation should be the only appropriate benchmark and the refit programme should not be used to undermine the sustainability of social, labour, environmental or consumer standards. we encourage the commission and the member states to step up the exchange of good practice in the context of the implementation and application of eu directives. stakeholders and local and regional authorities could be encouraged to participate in identifying difficulties encountered in implementing eu policy at local, regional and national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of nutrient profiles in food legislation and i am disappointed that many colleagues voted differently on this issue. nutrient profiling has been done by the world health organisation and could serve as a tool to prevent misleading health claims on foods and restrict the advertising of junk food to children. the commission has failed in its legal obligation to propose nutrient profiles as part of health claims legislation, and as a result has missed an important opportunity to improve information to consumers. there will be many now considering whether health claims on foods should continue to be allowed at all given that such an essential piece of the legislation is lacking.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme is a good opportunity to remove administrative barriers and simplify and improve european legislation. we have both the need and the obligation to create a framework that stimulates the economy and creates jobs. at the same time, it is important to take into account the social component. better regulation does not and should not mean deregulation or precarious employment contracts. we are not talking about the absence of rules, but about improving them for all the actors involved, for institutions, companies, but also for citizens. this document should be seen as a necessary step towards a sound and transparent legislative framework, which is in line with a modern, efficient and fair european union.
in writing. ‒ the decisions taken by the eu institutions concern us all, and the impact assessment of legislation in the making requires particular rigour, so that changes introduced during the legislative process and political decisions are taken into account and based on concrete studies. the new better regulation package proposed by the european commission takes into account the requirements of citizens and businesses, especially smes, and the rules are designed in a way that is understandable to everyone. the refit programme aims to strengthen the procedures for better regulation, simplify european union law and reduce the administrative and regulatory burden. i welcome the 'better regulation' package, as i believe that the current commission has a coherent and holistic approach to better regulation, which takes into account the whole political cycle of this process and involves targeted interaction of all institutions and local and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a fundamental tool in creating jobs in the european union and encouraging economic growth. the report on improving single market legislation provides the main directions for strengthening single market governance and single market regulation. improving the regulation of the single market aims to create a clear, coherent and competitive regulatory framework to support innovation, production and trade and to stimulate the european union's economic growth. this requires a concerted effort, a shared responsibility of the european institutions to transpose the principle of subsidiarity. the single market must be a priority for the european institutions, and good legislation and policies based on the principle of subsidiarity are needed. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the promotion of competitiveness, innovation, reduction of unemployment and job creation at union level cannot be achieved in the absence of coherent, harmonised and comprehensive legislation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a well-functioning european union is the key to a promising future. a major step towards this future is the economic stabilisation of europe, also achieved by the consolidation of a strong single market. the cooperation of the member states of the european union is indispensable for this. transparency among member states and the smooth transfer of information between them will be the foundation of a europe that is united, strong, informed and ready for anything. they therefore support the changes to single market regulations, as the evolution of the european union requires that european regulations are also improved and adapted to the needs of the citizens of the union. the new regulations also make changes to services, among other things, so that the european union can help member states in employment and business capacity building. these changes will lead to better communication and better communication, and to effective communication and communication at political level. optimal cooperation will thus lead to positive results for the internal market, consumers and ultimately the consolidation of a single market.
in writing. ‒ improving legislation in the area of the single market is a priority for the eu institutions, because better legislation is always in the interest of citizens. this also contributes to boosting competitiveness, job creation, economic growth and the development of smes, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. in addition, the private sector can and should be much more involved in sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, health services and property rights, which remain largely untapped.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which prescribes a number of suggestions to make regulation in the area of the single market more effective and efficient, emphasising the importance of a functioning single market for growth and job creation in the union. references to consumer, social and environmental objectives are set as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation. however, we need to re-balance further the accent on slimmer eu legislation and members states’ prerogatives with due consideration of the advantage of harmonised and solid eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards. ‘subsidiarity’ cannot be interpreted as diminishing as much as possible eu regulatory actions; ‘better regulation’ cannot be identified as a way to limit as much as possible eu regulatory powers. finally, i do not support the reference to gold-plating, as it would diminish social, workers’ and consumer standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the single market is the most important pillar of the european union and improving its regulation is a shared responsibility of the eu institutions. improving the regulation of the single market does not mean eliminating all regulation, but ensuring a competitive regulatory framework that supports jobs and businesses in europe. this improvement process should aim at simplicity, transparency, consistency and respect for fundamental rights. boosting economic growth in europe will be the result of a single market that does not overburden and impede production, innovation and trade. it is important that national institutions, in particular parliaments, are also actively involved in the consultation processes.
in writing. ‒ this report has some controversial issues. better regulation is not a way to limit as much as possible eu regulatory powers, and subsidiarity cannot be interpreted as diminishing as much as possible eu regulatory actions. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report regarding the single market regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of the european single market, one of the most important tools for generating growth and jobs in the member states. given the many blockages of romanian companies providing services on the european market, situations created by the different laws of the member states, i believe that it is in the interest of service providers, but also of consumers, to have a homogeneous and clearly legislated single market in europe. although we have been talking about the single market for more than 20 years, it continues to be dysfunctional because of the different and sometimes malicious application of national or european legislation. the report voted on today therefore refers to legislating and improving the functioning of the single market by reducing unnecessary regulations in the field of the environment, consumer safety, etc. reducing bureaucracy also ensures a strong economic environment that supports innovation, production and trade, with the aim of creating new jobs and increasing european economic competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ our group has a moral duty to protect the rights and freedoms of european citizens. better functioning of the european single market means more than cutting red tape; a functioning single market must serve both citizens and the companies that create jobs. that is why it is important that all of us in this parliament take ownership of the terms we use and be clear in defining the concepts that affect the lives of millions of european citizens. whether we are talking about better regulation, subsidiarity or proportionality, we must understand that the success of the european market lies in balancing the need for simplification with the maintenance of standards for consumers, employees and, not least, the environment. i consider that this document fails to strike that vital balance.
in writing. ‒ the concept of improving the regulation of the single market is a shared responsibility of the eu institutions, which must be based on the guiding principle of subsidiarity. the draft report on improving legislation in the area of the single market stresses that the transposition and implementation of the single market regulation is very important, especially when the whole process involves revising and updating the community acquis. improving the regulation of the single market means ensuring a competitive regulatory environment that supports employment and businesses in europe. i voted in favour of the draft report because i believe that we need a single market that does not overburden and does not hinder production, innovation and trade, because a strong and dynamic single market contributes to europe's long-term growth and the well-being of european citizens.
mr president one of the european union's most important long-term tasks is to create and maintain european citizenship by making known and understanding the common history of the union and its member states to the younger generations, thus promoting peaceful coexistence, tolerance and a sense of subsidiarity in the future. educational methods adapted to the level and needs of learners, with quality as the primary focus, can enable young people to think critically, to form opinions and to exercise their democratic rights and obligations. the european union's knowledge also gives young people an up-to-date picture of europe's indigenous minorities, all the groups who have contributed and continue to contribute to the expansion of europe's treasury. thank you, thank you.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the eu has been facing a major financial and economic crisis. its social and political effects have called into question the eu's common institutions and values, and even the idea of european identity. strengthening the dialogue between the eu and schools, associations and public spaces is therefore more important than ever, as it is beneficial for restoring citizens' confidence in the process and value of european integration. at present, citizens have very limited knowledge of the eu and how its institutions work. it is therefore not surprising that citizens are distancing themselves from the european political project. citizens are becoming increasingly eurosceptic and perceive a democratic deficit in the union's decision-making processes. i voted in favour of the report on knowledge of the european union in schools because i believe that it is appropriate for citizens of the member states to be as informed as possible about the eu and its work, for better cooperation between citizens and the union institutions.
in writing. ‒ given the current economic, political and social context, i believe it is important to introduce eu knowledge courses in schools, because there is a need for citizens of the union to be aware of the idea of a european identity. schools are nothing but mirrors of society, and in a world facing rapid change, the elements that make a difference are education and research, innovation and creativity. i would stress that one of the most effective ways of combating inequality and poverty is to strengthen education. according to the 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of eu citizens have limited knowledge of how the union works and 52% of citizens feel that their views are not taken into account. i am concerned about the low voter turnout achieved in the last european parliament elections, where only 27.8% of citizens aged 18-24 voted. so, the lack of interest and misinformation of young people in this institution is particularly noticeable. action is needed to reduce the high number of people with a low level of knowledge of the european union and to increase the employability of young people and their integrity in the workplace both at national and eu level.
in writing. ‒ the political and economic crises that the european union has been through have caused the city's inhabitants to lose their trust in it. i voted for this project, which aims to inform citizens and involve them in the project of european unification, because, as a 2014 eurobarometer opinion poll shows, 44% of those interviewed are not aware of the mechanisms by which the eu works.
in writing. ‒ effective implementation of the 'europe for citizens' programme can and must contribute to improving citizens' participation in decision-making processes. consider it useful to develop and promote the etwinning, epale and school education gateway virtual platforms as widely as possible, as well as the teachers corner, in order to facilitate access to high-quality, easy-to-use and up-to-date teaching materials, relevant to eu knowledge and available in all union languages. in addition, the role of the information offices of the european institutions in fostering relations with educational institutions, youth organisations and the media at national, regional and local level is beneficial to ensure that young people understand the role that the institutions play in their daily lives.
in writing. ‒ i believe this report is absolutely fundamental for the future of the eu, as it will introduce real concrete measures at eu level and to members states to achieve learning eu at school. the inclusion of the european dimension in education, with learning eu at school being a crucial component, aim at creating a sense of european citizenship and at deepening knowledge of the role of eu values to tackle the widespread euroscepticism. it will allow a better understanding of the eu’s history and culture as well as its policy-making decision process, and will enable children to critically reflect on european matters and to engage themselves in the civic and intercultural dialogue that reflects the diversity of the union. we must be committed to eu values and to fighting euroscepticism. our goal has to be including a european dimension in education to strengthen european citizenship and promote intercultural, non-discriminatory and inclusive education in school and university.
in writing. ‒ i consider this report important because strengthening the dialogue about the eu in our schools, associations and public spaces is essential to rebuilding citizens' confidence in the benefits of the european integration process. currently, citizens have little knowledge of the eu and how its institutions work, but this could change if they were better informed and encouraged to get involved. at european level, the opportunities offered by eu programmes in the fields of education and culture should be fully exploited to improve language skills and promote the concepts of active citizenship, cultural awareness and intercultural understanding.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to conclude a european dimension in education in order to strengthen european citizenship and promote intercultural, inclusive education in schools. by learning eu at school pupils would better understand their european citizenship, the eu’s cultural history as well as its policy-making decision process. i have voted in favour of this report that promotes the educational values and future networks and exchanges at all educational levels.
in writing. ‒ the eu faces unprecedented challenges after experiencing major economic and financial crisis. the social and political effects call into question the institution and common values of the union. i have voted for this report that will progressively integrate an eu dimension into educational curricula and into teachers’ training.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european parliament resolution on eu knowledge in school because the eu should be more visible and better integrated in teaching materials and extracurricular activities, and introducing a european dimension to education is essential to help citizens better understand the union. i believe that the opportunities offered by digital technologies should be fully exploited to develop cross-border teaching and the exchange of good practices. we call on the commission to develop and promote existing virtual platforms as widely as possible and to continue to support and develop other digital platforms (for teachers and students) to facilitate access to high-quality, easy-to-use and up-to-date teaching materials, relevant to eu knowledge and available in all union languages. we encourage member states to increase investment in the quality of education, including through strengthening partnerships with the private sector, to promote universal equality of opportunity and to provide the necessary support to all education and training institutions, teachers and other educators so that they are able to introduce and develop a european dimension in education on an ongoing basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for my colleague damian draghici's report because i am convinced that the educational system must be at the heart of any society, but especially of the european union. as a large proportion of european citizens are not aware of how the eu works, have insufficient knowledge of the member states and do not exercise their right to vote in european parliament elections, i am convinced that by adopting the measures set out in this report we will take important steps towards knowledge, understanding and, above all, tolerance. i am pleased that today's report insists on introducing a european dimension to the education curriculum, with the aim of learning about the eu. i also appreciate that member states are invited to take further steps to promote the benefits of education, of citizenship understanding characterised by interculturality; we can acquire values, principles such as non-discrimination and social inclusion by modernising the education system in our countries. i think this report is absolutely beneficial and i think it is, in its nature, a basic pillar for creating a legitimate sense of european citizenship.
in writing. ‒ there clearly needs to be more education about the role of the eu, its decision making structures, and the relationship between the eu institutions and member states. a lack of information about these issues feeds euro-scepticism and prevents citizens from engaging effectively with the european policy process. i therefore welcome this report and its call to improve education and awareness, and the emphasis it places on including all actors, including civil society and social partners.
in writing. ‒ the inclusion of the european perspective in education, by learning eu at school, aims to help creating a sense of european identity, to deepen knowledge of the role of the eu. it will allow a better understanding of the eu history and culture as well as its policy-making decision process. this measure will engage children in the civic and intercultural dialogue that reflects the diversity of the union. the report highlights the role of the european union and the importance of promoting learning eu at school, enhancing existing and future networks and exchanges at all educational levels and focusing on curricula, teaching methods, mobility, research and the use of new technologies. it also underlines the role played by social partners and civil society organisations. i support this report, because it is very important to include a european dimension in education in order to strengthen eu citizenship and promote intercultural, non-discriminatory and inclusive education in schools and universities.
in writing. ‒ according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey at european level, 44% of eu citizens feel that they have only limited knowledge of how the eu works. moreover, only 42,61% of citizens and only 27,8% of young people aged 18-24 voted in the last european parliament elections. insufficient knowledge and a poor understanding of eu mechanisms can contribute to the growth of the democratic deficit and the spread of euroscepticism. so the gap between eu citizens and the european institutions needs to be filled. in this perspective, the report highlights the need for a european dimension of education to help citizens better understand how the eu works and to reconnect them with the eu. this european dimension of education should not only contribute to the acquisition of knowledge and the development of a sense of belonging to the eu, but also to the development of critical reflections on the eu, in particular through the knowledge of fundamental values. in this context, the report proposes to integrate the eu as much as possible into teaching materials and extracurricular activities in order to increase its visibility. i therefore voted in favour of the report on eu knowledge in schools.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the own-initiative report on eu awareness in schools. we voted in favour of this report, which underlines the growing importance of a european dimension in education, in its different subjects, levels and forms, with the emphasis on the need for a broader and deeper understanding of the concept, taking into account its complex, dynamic and multi-layered nature, of which the acquisition of eu knowledge in school is an essential component. the report also shows that introducing an eu dimension into education is essential to help citizens better understand and reconnect with the union, as well as to emphasise the role of the values enshrined in article 2 teu and maximise the union's position in an interdependent world.
mr president, i support the creation of the seven-year erasmus+ programme, as i stand for europe-wide mobility and educational cooperation among european countries. i strongly believe that education is a fundamental right and that it is a public good that should be equally accessible to all eu citizens and young people, because we are talking about young people here. erasmus+ provides opportunities for vocational education and training for students to carry out work experience abroad, allowing them to learn new skills and languages which will improve their employability in the future. let us not forget that youth unemployment across the eu is at 22%; it is at a high. therefore we need the recognition and accreditation of study and working practices between certain countries. validation and recognition of learning skills and competences are key aspects to improve implementation of the european qualification framework for lifelong studying and learning.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of erasmus+ over previous programmes was a very important development in the concept of mobility in higher education in the european area. at the same time, the reduced mobility of vocational training courses is also important, with the old leonardo programme successfully implementing a first mechanism of exchanges and simultaneous work and study visits to countries other than the country of origin. the grouping of programmes into a single concept, erasmus+, and the effects of the economic crisis that have been felt since 2008 have revealed a structural deficit of mobility programmes in terms of the relationship between training and employment, so it is very clear that differences in the design of courses and study programmes, the organisation and management of study centres, the relationships between education systems and the business environment increase the complexity, costs and difficulty of operating mobility between countries and regions in europe. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is beneficial for this single programme, erasmus+, to replace the various previously existing programmes, especially for the mobility offered within the european higher education area.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is an international mobility programme that facilitates access for all european students to study opportunities in another country, based on diversity and inclusion of disadvantaged young people. one of the basic principles of the european union is free movement. in this regard, urgent and effective measures that take into account the needs of these persons are needed to facilitate their access to the erasmus+ programme. the role of education is to prepare man as an active element of social life, as a workforce and as a subject of social relations. nowadays, vocational technical education should no longer be considered as a vocational pathway, but as an alternative pathway of the academic pathway, which contains many elements of academic training and can eventually lead to a tertiary level of university training. i support this project and am confident that this initiative will contribute in the future to improving not only the civic values of the trainees, but also their academic skills and job prospects, fighting the still so high unemployment rate that we are facing today at european level.
in writing. ‒ the percentage of young people without a job in the european union is 22.1%. i voted for this initiative because it gives young people the mobility they need to discover their vocation. this mobility offered by the erasmus+ programme will improve transnational collaboration and competitiveness within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i consider it useful to draw up a green paper on vocational education, training, mobility and the recognition of skills and competences in europe, to which all stakeholders should contribute, because the non-recognition of skills has a negative impact on the employment targets of the europe 2020 strategy and hinders the free movement of european citizens within the union. on the other hand, greater mobility related to employment, education, apprenticeships and traineeships in the context of national 'european youth guarantee' programmes can and should contribute to improving the skills of young people as well as to reducing the geographical differences between acquired skills and the labour supply in the eu.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is one of the most successful eu programmes that gives learners more opportunities to acquire new professional skills as well as linguistic, social and intercultural competences that can help them become more competitive on the labour market and also more aware of and engaged in the social and political life of the union. erasmus+ can make a major contribution in achieving eu2020 objectives and in addressing the current challenges posed by huge unemployment (especially among young people), skills shortages and mismatches between education and labour market, high rates of early school leaving and of young people not in education, employment or training. therefore i fully support the constructive proposals included in this report for expanding and improving mobility options for all learners in vet starting with creating a european reference framework. in order to boost the quantity and quality of mobility in vet, the commission together with the member states need to correlate their efforts in order to ensure that the right to quality and inclusive education is much better protected and that there are no constraints or barriers to programmes or initiatives taken at eu and national level, especially for learners from vulnerable or disadvantaged groups.
in writing. ‒ learning mobility and training mobility have clearly proved their potential to contribute to high-quality education and employability; i therefore believe they should be should be further strengthened in eu programmes in the area of education and training, employment and cohesion policy. member states must adopt as quickly as possible concrete measures to improve the social and economic impact to achieve a highly skilled workforce with inclusive education policies. it is absolutely important to have tools, like erasmus+, that push for this goal. i strongly believe that erasmus + documentation must be made available in all eu official languages. enhanced mobility for vet (vocational educational training), in particular for youth apprenticeship and trainees, will contribute to growth and jobs creation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to improve the erasmus programme. the commission has already planned a budget of eur 14.7 billion for this programme, an increase of 40% over the current budget. the programme will be strengthened in particular in the area of vocational training and apprenticeship, in order to strengthen the link between education and the world of work, in particular with small and medium-sized enterprises. although the report assumes that the mobility of young europeans will solve the problem of unemployment, it does contain measures to improve the skills and employability of young people. i therefore voted in favour of this text because erasmus allows students to train abroad without organising a brain drain or uprooting workers.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational and technical education. these instruments demonstrate that a real and ambitious mobility offer must be part of any overall strategy to recover the economy and reduce youth unemployment rates, which have reached far too high levels in recent times. in some european regions, the real unemployment rate is close to zero, while in other areas it is rising to over 40% among young people, especially those who have not been able to complete secondary education or vocational training. therefore, it is very important for the eu to take the necessary measures to prevent early school leaving, and european mobility programmes are one such measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. erasmus is one of the most successful projects of the european union. we cannot imagine a single economy, a single european market, unless we are talking about a single labour market, mobility of young people within the borders of the european union, exchanges of experience between universities and graduates of higher education who have the same training for the labour market across the european union.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+ is the eu’s programme to support education, training youth and sport in europe. it has a budget of eur 14.7 billion and provides opportunities for over 4 million europeans to study, train, gain experience and volunteer abroad. i have voted for this report that calls, amongst others things, for the expansion and improvement of mobility options for students.
in writing. ‒ a common european area of education based on mobility, including higher education and vocational and technical education (vet), will contribute to the creation and development of a stronger european identity and enhanced citizenship. the transition to the digital economy is redefining jobs and skills, and member states and the commission need to work with the private sector to develop skills strategies and vocational and technical education programmes to retrain workers. the private and public sectors of industry and services, including the manufacturing sector (in particular smes and micro-enterprises) should be consulted and/or involved in the design, development, implementation and support of quality vet mobility programmes. the commission needs to monitor the evolution of demand and supply in the eu labour market, as well as geographical and occupational mobility, in order to adapt to labour market needs. this would reduce the gaps between the supply of training courses and market needs in value-added sectors (e.g. digital and green economy, energy, etc.). i therefore voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational and technical education.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that facilitating the mobility of european citizens is the foundation of the eu. we are facing, and i speak for most member states, a very high rate of school dropout, but also an inequitable accessibility in terms of mobility, and here i am referring to the disparity between university and technical education. in this respect, the report adopted today promotes mobility in vocational and technical education through the erasmus+ programme and other instruments, which is beneficial as it increases the inclusion of young people in society, strengthens their ability to work in a multicultural environment and, not least, allows them to acquire knowledge about the eu.
in writing. ‒ for many young people, erasmus may provide their first opportunity to live in another eu member state, and it is a vital basis for educational, cultural and linguistic exchange across the eu. vocational educational training helps to create a mobile and adaptable work force which promotes economic growth and increases employment opportunities for the individual. these programmes are therefore of great social and economic importance and should be protected and enhanced.
in writing. ‒ today, 29 years after its establishment, the erasmus programme is not just the european union’s best known and most successful project, but also the biggest student mobility programme in the world: its existence has allowed more than 3 million students from over 3 000 universities from the eu and beyond to live and study in other countries, fostering not just high quality education and employability, but also understanding, respect and dialogue among cultures. as its success is largely due to the latter aspect, i believe that it is time for the openness that is at its foundation to be taken one step further and its multicultural approach extended to minority languages from within member states. the provision by the member states of erasmus+ documents in minority languages would be the most natural step in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus programme places great importance on mobility and furthering career prospects through learning and developing intercultural dialogue within academia. the report focuses on the implementation of erasmus+ and the mobility aspect, considering the objectives of the mobility programme and calling on the commission and the members states to adopt concrete measures to improve the social and economic impact. it underlines the diversity of languages requested for the erasmus+ documentation and the importance of developing a highly skilled workforce with inclusive education policies. in my opinion, we need to enhance mobility, in particular for youth apprenticeship and trainees, which will contribute to economic growth and job creation in the eu. in addition, one of the main goals would be to ensure that erasmus+ documentation is available in all eu official languages.
in writing. ‒ the inclusion of several programmes in a single concept, erasmus+, as well as the effects of the economic crisis, felt since 2008, highlight a structural deficit of programmes which are intended for student mobility in terms of the relationship between training and employment. unfortunately, there is a very large difference in the design of courses and study programmes, while the organisation and management of educational centres and the business environment increase above all the costs and operational difficulties in developing mobility between countries and regions in europe. i believe that we must take into account the socio-economic reality in the various member states of the european union and that it is necessary to urgently reactivate this form of vocational training in europe, given the extremely high differences in unemployment rates in different european regions. i strongly support the adoption of the erasmus+ programme because, on the one hand, it speeds up the completion of the recognition and accreditation processes, which is a common reference framework valid in all member states, and the field of vocational training requires major importance in order to overcome the limitations related to both mutual recognition of studies and employment-related aspects.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational and technical education. the adoption of erasmus+ in place of the various previous programmes represented an important evolution of the concept of mobility within the european higher education area. the report makes proposals to address a structural shortfall in mobility programmes in terms of the relationship between training and employment.
mr president, i voted for this report because i support the idea of a single european voice. we often face fragmentation and delays due to insufficient or inconsistent implementation of internationally agreed financial rules and guidelines. it is important that the union has ex ante evaluations before it goes to negotiations, to start global negotiations with regard to the financial sector. i also believe that the union should become a member of international economic and financial institutions such as the imf or the oecd, but that does not mean that the member states should lose their seats. and the cooperation between them will be better, and the competition is also very good. last but not least, i support the idea of a european code on transparency, integrity and accountability for those who represent the european union in financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ given the flow of capital and financial professions globally, it is illusory to claim a change in the field without a change in public equity. the eu has achieved a number of strengths, such as a world-class internal market for financial services that will be reinvigorated by the markets union, a single global currency that has adopted support mechanisms and established unprecedented banking supervision and resolution bodies for the crisis period, a committee responsible for systemic prevention, and three authorities that have consolidated their existence in a short period of time. the eu has exceptional know-how in terms of supranational democracy and monitoring of member states' commitments in respect of non-compliance. at the same time, the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and job creation requires a review of multilateral global cooperation, thus increasing the influence of the eu, but also of the euro area. i voted in favour of this report on the eu's role in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies because i believe that the eu is an important economic player.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the financial sector for growth and job creation requires a review of multilateral global cooperation. in international negotiations, eu representatives must pay particular attention to the consistency and coherence between requirements, international standards and mandatory legislation adopted at eu level, and to compliance with obligations to create a level playing field at international level. the commission should also include in its work programme the external dimension of economic and financial regulation, precisely in order to increase the coherence of internal policies. i voted to defend the strategic interests of every eu citizen. international regulatory cooperation must be based on solidarity between countries and not on the defence of major financial and economic interests.
in writing. ‒ in the current international framework, the lack of coherence caused by the fragmentation and diversity of the various organisations/bodies is causing delays regarding rules and orientations agreed at international level. therefore, i support the need to clarify the remit of each organisation and body, as well as the ways in which they operate and are financed. moreover, i agree that improvement is needed on the coordination between the commission and the member states which are members of the financial action task force (fatf) on tax issues. the eu should streamline and codify its representation in multilateral organisations/bodies and the commission should be held more directly accountable to citizens and the role of parliament in this process must be stronger.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that should enhance international regulatory cooperation, improve transparency and accountability in order for the eu to defend its strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ due to the financial professions and the global nature of capital flows, it would be unrealistic to attempt and regulate this sector without public initiatives. i have voted for this report that should enable the eu and the euro area to defend its strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european parliament resolution on the role of the eu in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies because the eu should speak with one voice in these institutions/bodies. we call for greater political coherence and coordination among international institutions through the introduction of comprehensive standards of democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and integrity. this should, inter alia, concern: public relations (e.g. public access to documents, open dialogue with various stakeholders, the creation of mandatory transparency registers and rules on the transparency of lobby meetings); and internal rules (e.g. human resources recruited on the basis of competence, sound financial management, prevention of conflicts of interest); the under-representation of least developed countries in most international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies creates an imbalance and, as a consequence, the issues of inequality or of financing for the poorest countries risk not being adequately addressed. there are also certain sectors in particular civil society, smes, consumer representatives and employee representatives whose participation in the consultation process can be enhanced in international discussions on financial, monetary and regulatory bodies. we believe that these bodies and sectors should make efforts to improve the situation.
in writing. ‒ the importance of international monetary institutions and bodies for the economies of all states, including all eu member states, is very great - and understandable - in the context of increasingly interconnected and interdependent economies. in this context, the eu's presence in these international institutions and bodies, through the member states or the european commission, is becoming increasingly important. i support the rapporteur's view, which underlines the importance of coordinating member states' positions and of representing the whole eu with a single voice, a single agenda of objectives and negotiations in these international institutions and bodies. although this is not always possible, the adoption of anti-eu positions by a member state within these institutions and organisations can cause significant damage to the union as a whole. i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the importance of the coherent and coordinated representation of eu economies in such international institutions and calls on the member states and the european commission to work towards this.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently one of the main structures represented in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. however, its representation is fragmented, leading to a certain lack of coherence in the union's positions and causing certain delays in the application of internationally agreed rules. the way in which each international organisation operates also needs to be clarified in light of their increasingly important role in the lives of european citizens, in particular with regard to funding, interests and the legality of decisions. in this respect, the european union's involvement must include a stronger role for the european parliament, the direct representative of the citizens, and a stronger accountability of the commission. the existence of two separate representations, the council and the commission, is also likely to lead to a number of confusions as to the positions of the european institutions and the member states, in particular in the context of the g20 meetings. to address these problems, this report rightly proposes enhanced cooperation within the union to adopt common positions, greater transparency, accountability and democratisation of international organisations with economic impact and greater involvement of the european parliament in this process.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the own-initiative report on the eu's role in international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. in drawing up this document, the reporting team started from three conclusions: the stability of the financial system, a decisive element for investment and growth, depends on the ability to develop standards and codes of conduct and ensure their compliance at supranational level; the indispensable change of scale must not lead to dilution of responsibilities to the detriment of democracy; the eu and the euro area must be able to defend their strategic interests. the report calls on member states to accept the representation of the banking union in the basel committee on banking supervision, as well as an in-depth analysis of the situation where the council and the commission each have their place at the g20 meetings.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the eu member states, and is of particular importance because it provides a high degree of employment and is an ecologically and socially sustainable fishing activity. coastal and island areas dependent on coastal fisheries require special measures and support to be able to foster both development of the areas and economic growth. the 2013 and 2014 regulations on the economic policy in the field of fisheries focused on economic growth in coastal areas, recognising the importance of offshore island areas that depend on fisheries and need to be supported in order to survive and benefit from the opportunities needed to develop. i voted in favour of the report on the innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions because it is very important to encourage and support coastal fisheries-dependent states in order to achieve economic growth for both those states and the eu.
in writing. ‒ when we talk about fishing in coastal and island areas, we are talking about a way of life and even a source of livelihood. they require special measures and support to foster development and economic growth. we voted to amend existing legislation, thus protecting fisheries in coastal and island areas.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is an exceptionally important form of fishing in eu countries. it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. for most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a traditional form of fishing that forms a way of life and a significant source of livelihood. areas which depend on coastal fisheries require specific measures and support in order to grow and develop. the report looks at how innovation and diversification can help coastal regions dependent on fishing to survive. not only is coastal fishing a way of life for many communities, but for islands and coastal areas it can also provide a number of people’s livelihoods. coastal regions face decline and depopulation as people move elsewhere to find work. i supported the report as i believe it will protect and create jobs in small-scale, artisanal fisheries. coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and generally represents a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing, classified and defined differently in each member state, is an extremely important form of fishing in eu countries that guarantees a high level of employment that is socially and environmentally sustainable. i have voted in favour of this report that reiterates the economic importance of small-scale coastal fishing.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing represents an exceptionally important form of fishing in eu countries guaranteeing a high level of employment that is socially and environmentally sustainable. i have voted for this report that addresses shortcomings such as inadequate investment in science, lack of data on seas and oceans, insufficient funding, lack of cooperation between the private and public sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the rapporteur's position on the importance of small-scale coastal fishing both for local economies and for the eu fishing industry as a whole. coastal fishing, whether artisanal or traditional, although defined differently by the member states, is the most important economic activity for some communities, if not the only one. i support the principles expressed in this report, in particular those relating to the application of regionalisation, as also provided for in the common fisheries policy. i also think it is extremely important that the report stresses the need to encourage small-scale fishing, to have a clearer definition of small-scale coastal fishing and to constantly analyse socio-economic realities.
in writing. ‒ fishing activities generate important revenues for the budgets of the eu member states. this is particularly the case for coastal and island fisheries, which are a traditional, clean form of economy and guarantee a high level of long-term employment. unfortunately, the survival of these livelihoods is threatened by economic decline and depopulation of these areas, which are heavily dependent on fishing. to avoid this negative trend, the economies of coastal areas can be diversified and strengthened through the european maritime and fisheries fund, allowing better commercial exploitation of the products of these regions and promoting scientific research on biodiversity in these areas, which can serve as a model for other regions. at the same time, those areas can be better promoted for their tourism and gastronomic potential, creating the conditions for new sources of development in the future. in this respect, this document is a laudable initiative, which deserves the support of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the pcp was born in the 1980s and consisted of the eu members, the soviet union, japan and the usa. they fish pelagic or in waters far from their own coastal waters. three decades later, the situation has changed radically, with strong competition emerging in all ocean areas. unfortunately, many of the pelagic countries do not fulfil their responsibilities as flag, port and trade states, which gives them an economic competitive advantage over the eu. the eu is the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets under its flags and is among the top three catching powers, and the best strategy to achieve the objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence on the international stage to be able to improve standards of transparency and fisheries management, to encourage competition at the top level at the expense of competition at the bottom. i voted in favour of the report on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, because the new cfp includes significant progress and will improve standards for eu pelagic fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world's largest market for fishery products, with one of the largest fleets under its flag. i voted for greater transparency in the fishing activities of all the relevant actors and for supporting the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fishing.
in writing. ‒ it is important for europe and its involvement in environmental protection to support cooperation between local and regional authorities and associations of entrepreneurs, fisheries and oceanography research institutes, universities, technology centres and local and regional institutions to participate in the innovation process, as development and innovation can play a fundamental role in job creation in island and coastal communities. in these communities, small-scale fishing contributes to the viability of the communities, to combating the increasing phenomenon of depopulation, ageing in the fisheries sector and unemployment. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that small-scale fishing in certain areas uses old gear and techniques that are more environmentally friendly and have less impact on the status of endangered stocks.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently the world’s largest market for fisheries products and has one of the largest fleets and usually ranks among the top three world catching powers. i believe we have to improve transparency in fishing activities and support regional approach to fisheries management, including promoting the harmonisation of conditions of access for foreign fleets to third countries’ eezs (exclusive economic zones) and the development of a sustainability framework for joint ventures as part of the implementation of sfpas. moreover, we should improve the supply of fish for food security by supporting the work done by women in the fisheries sector. the external dimension of the common fisheries policy has to be among our priorities for fisheries policy like promoting sustainable fishing in third countries, ensuring that fishery products imported into the eu are produced under acceptable labour and human rights standards, keeping up pressure on states to combat iuu fishing and enhancing controls.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world’s largest market for fisheries products with one of the largest fleets. its objective is to promote sustainable fisheries on the international stage. i have voted in favour of this report that should improve fisheries management and transparency standards of the common fisheries policy (cep).
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy is a set of rules that manages european fishing fleets and conserves fish stocks. designed to manage a common resource, it gives all european fishing fleets equal access to eu waters and fishing grounds, allowing fishermen to compete fairly. i have voted for this report that will bring more transparency in fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a balanced report, which sets out both the importance of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy and the main concerns of the committee on fisheries with regard to these agreements with third countries. it is true that the eu is the largest importer of fish products, which means that there is a constant need for fisheries agreements with third countries. however, the eu must ensure that these agreements are mutually beneficial, that they help the development of third countries and, not least, that they are in line with the principles of the cfp. furthermore, given that in some cases information on third countries' fish stocks is incomplete, encouraging better monitoring and combating iuu fishing should always be a priority of those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the european union is now the largest market for fishery products worldwide. the total level of the eu member states' fishing fleet is also among the top three in the world. this level is based on the fishing activity in the internal waters of the member states, but also in international waters or waters belonging to other states. in international waters, fishing is regulated through participation in regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo); in the waters of other countries, fishing is regulated through bilateral conventions with that state. to maintain its global competitiveness in the fisheries sector, the eu generally calls for certain management and transparency standards in the sector, as well as harmonisation of access conditions, development of a sustainable framework, combating illegal fishing, ensuring decent working conditions and human rights, and promoting the involvement of women in the sector. the eu also promotes the importance of fisheries for the food security of the population at international level; the commission therefore focuses on compliance with the fisheries partnership agreements and the development of integrated flag databases. the adoption of this document constitutes a significant improvement to the common fisheries policy (cfp).
blue-card question.– mr kamal, last year in paris a young romanian couple were shot dead sitting at table on a terrace in paris. afterwards the european union, together with europol, set up a centre to counter terrorism in the hague, with 45-50 staff. it is a small measure to counter terrorism. do you not think that the european union needs a real agency to counter terrorism, with a special intelligence service to counter terrorism and special anti-terrorist troops to be pooled by the member states to finally fight this terrible situation?
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. actually, i was going to ask mrs. corazza's colleague, but since we're in the same group, i'll ask the question. europe is not a safe place, it was stated here. madam president, you have mentioned a number of things that the commission should do, including information exchange and the database. but we're already in a process. the database collection is taking time. do you think it was right, do you think the commission did the right thing in starting this refugee programme? what should be done today?
madam president, please. the events of the past few months have made it clear that terrorism has also transformed into a new form that threatens our daily lives. the response to this threat must be swift and effective: if the european union cannot provide an institutional response, then the member states will do so, as the safety of european citizens is paramount. terrorist organisations see europe as a field of operations, a continent that is incapable of stopping terrorism at its borders. we cannot allow european citizens to play war games in syria or elsewhere in the world and then return to europe with impunity. this is an absurd situation that must be stopped. i think that those who want to fight for the victory of a jihadist ideology and therefore travel to war zones, they are also a threat to us when they return to europe.
mr president, it is a sad truth that the names of traffic offenders travel quickly over the member states’ borders while the names of terrorists do not. the reason is that intelligence cooperation, like security, defence and foreign policy, is the embodiment of sovereignty – the supreme limit for integration. ultimately, the response to all terrorist attacks is the responsibility of the member state that was targeted. it is for that member state to react first, but equally it is for the eu to help in dealing with the consequences, including in apprehending the perpetrators and, more importantly, in preventing such attacks. after all, just as the recent economic and financial crisis forced us to leave sovereignty aside and start interacting with brussels in adopting our national budgets, we should realise that we should do the same in respect of intelligence cooperation, because in such cases, jealously guarding our national attributes simply does not save lives. quite the contrary.
member of the commission. – madam president, as the honourable members all stress tonight, the brussels attacks illustrated once again the severity of the challenges we are confronted with. terrorism has claimed over 180 lives since january 2015 in europe and many more have been seriously injured, many more lives changed forever. you know, because i said it many times before, if we do not put aside the national silo mentality, terrorists will strike again. this is about information-sharing, trust, joining forces, working beyond our borders, giving our experts to europol’s european counter terrorism centre. that is the only way to respond to the threat: together. we all need to live up to our responsibilities – all of us: the commission, the member states and this parliament. there is no time and space for blame games. the priorities and gaps have been identified. now, more than ever, it is time for joint work to deliver actions. and this can only happen by cooperating to the maximum while respecting the principles of our democratic societies. that is why i welcome the finalisation of the data protection package to be voted by this house this week. this is an important step which will help us to develop our future tools on the exchange of information. you will also vote to adopt the pnr directive. the pnr framework is one of the tools that can substantially contribute to our security. i will continue pushing member states to implement this quickly and not wait for two more years. i want to assure you that the commission stands ready to support member states, to ensure a uniform understanding and implementation as the commission also supports interconnected national passenger information units through pilot projects. therefore your wide support for pnr on thursday will send a strong signal on the role and contribution of this house to security policies. i count on all of you. we made together some progress in recent months: that has to be acknowledged. more information is being shared between member states, but still not consistently or comprehensively enough. more alerts are created in the schengen information system, which has proven to be one of the most valuable tools to enhance security. the european counter terrorism centre with europol is operational, and we still expect all member states to send their experts and use to its full potential this nerve-centre of our operations. mr verhofstadt, i share some of your views and took note of your suggestions. we have to reach the point where member states exchange intelligence information in the future. europol has a very specific mission by the treaties, but as mr weber reminded us, it is an important one: to support and strengthen action by the member states’ police authorities and other law-enforcement services and their mutual cooperation. both europol and frontex are already supporting member states to better protect our external borders. we are working with countries such as turkey, tunisia, lebanon, jordan and the western balkans against terrorism. i was in turkey last week with europol’s director in order to accelerate our effective cooperation. we need turkey just as we need other key countries in the region that can share information with us on radicalised persons or on persons leaving or returning from isis-occupied areas. on 20 april, one year after the presentation of the agenda, the commission will report formally on the progress made so far on what needs to be accelerated and what more is needed on the road towards a genuine security union, as president juncker said here today. over the last five months we have put on the table important legislative proposals on terrorism, firearms, criminal records, borders and information-sharing, all of which should still be adopted as a matter of priority. we cannot expect quick results in security if after each attack we proclaim our determination but then water down every good proposal on the table. with regard to information-sharing, here we are finally coming to understand that the less information we share, the less we know and the less we can prevent. our information landscape for security in the european union is simply too complex, too fragmented. if our systems do not talk to each other, if they are not connected, we will continue putting data into black boxes. data must be interconnected to be useful. many eu tools for information-sharing are still under-used. we do not need to reinvent the wheel: we have to start using it more. last, but very important, a word also on radicalisation, which is key, as mr pittella stressed. last week i was at the un conference in geneva. we cannot close our eyes to the fact that, again, the terrorists were young persons born and raised in the european union. these are our youngsters. the roots of radicalisation are complex and multifaceted. there is no button that we can press to solve it. that is why we must rethink our integration and inclusion efforts, our educational structures, our whole approach to promoting tolerance and common values. let us not repeat ourselves. let us avoid empty words. our challenges are considerable and they are shared. let us prove our unity and resilience with concrete actions.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, like the members of this house i share the indignation about the attacks that have taken place. i equally share the sense of urgency: we have to act because of charlie hebdo, the bataclan, and zaventem and maelbeek. it is our responsibility to act, and i am pleased to note that most of those who have contributed to this debate are genuinely seeking solutions. most are trying to understand what causes senseless violence and terror and how to fight and prevent it. but let me be clear: giving up on our freedom is not the way forward. closing our internal borders is not the solution. this is not about political correctness: it is about our way of living, our values. several concrete questions have been put to me as the representative of the council presidency, including, for example, the calls for greater exchanges and sharing of intelligence and information. mr verhofstadt asked me specifically about europol, and to him i would say yes, we certainly do need to make the information in common databases better in terms of quality and quantity, as well as ensuring consistent use and interoperability of databases. we need to join the dots. the council will specifically address the challenge of improving the interoperability of databases at its meeting on 21 april. i would also like to draw attention to the joint statement issued by the ministers for justice and home affairs on 24 march in response to the attacks two days earlier. we think that the ten actions set out in that statement are a comprehensive agenda. our presidency will pursue it with the utmost vigour. specifically as regards europol, we fully agree that effective cross-border investigation capacity is of the utmost importance. collection of information is, of course, a prerequisite for connecting and exchanging information, and member states should step up their efforts here, using agreed methods such as joint investigation teams. europol plays an important role in supporting cross-border investigations and should continuously enhance its capabilities as the central information broker and as an analysis centre. soon the siena information architecture, which connects europol with law enforcement authorities in the member states, will be upgraded to confidential level. our presidency is committed to improving the collection and exchange of information overall, and yes, in reply to mr verhofstadt, we would very much welcome further discussions with parliament on this initiative. to conclude, let me just repeat that i am grateful for parliament’s support and for your contributions. we share the same objectives in our common fight against terrorism, and i am convinced that we must live up to the expectations of our citizens, improve their safety and uphold their values and rights. to do that, we have to join forces.
in writing. we are increasingly discussing terrorism, and the attacks in brussels on 22 march are just a reminder of how vulnerable we are. i would begin by saying that the best way to combat terrorism is prevention, and in this respect the report voted in november on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens is one of the key elements in the fight against terrorism. the european union must also pursue a coherent security policy, involving full cooperation between member states and increased exchange of information. at these times, we must show unity, because fragmentation is not the answer. as a co-legislator, the european parliament should also focus its efforts on the adoption of the directive on combating terrorism. it not only makes a number of changes to the current legislation by criminalising travel for terrorist purposes, the financing, organisation and facilitation of such travel, obtaining funds, but also aims to combat the effects of terrorism by ensuring immediate access to support services and medical and psychosocial assistance.
madam president, the panama papers scandal is unprecedented and it's appalling. it shows us that we live in different worlds, some who are very rich and who rule the world, practically rule us, are among politicians, and others who work for a decent living and pay their taxes. but it's good that we know. and thank you to the journalists from the rise project in romania. the annual losses generated by the use of offshore companies and tax havens are around one trillion euros, as estimated by the commissioner for taxation. now i ask, a man with a decent salary for which he works, can he understand this figure: one trillion euros? no, he won't understand it. i don't understand it either. all we understand is that there is a moral octopus that includes our elected officials, our leaders, our business people. they all made fun of us, they stole from us, they took a trillion euros out of investment and consumption, they also deepened the economic crisis and they even killed people: those who committed suicide during the financial crisis, those who are dying of hunger and cold, those who are dying because they don't have medicine. we must confiscate this money that comes from tax evasion and money laundering. if not, let's go... (the president interrupted the speaker's speech. )
madam president, commissioner, the fight against tax fraud and money laundering is not a new action or concern of the european commission and the council. the problem is what results we get. and so, when we talk in the member states, in the european union, about good governance, we see that theft, tax fraud and money laundering are flourishing, creating an international network of world officials. it is unacceptable, citizens of member states are impoverished, taxation kills small entrepreneurs while high-level devaluation continues. citizens are right to ask what the commission has done, what the member states have done, what the international and national institutions have done. it's a slap in the face to these institutions that some journalists have exposed this panama dossier. what are we doing? commissioner, we need to take firm action. those caught with money laundering and tax fraud crimes must pay for it, their money must be confiscated and they must be banned from operating in the economic space.
mr president, i think the commission has done quite a lot so far in terms of measures to prevent tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, money laundering. but the problem is that people expect much more, and we've been talking for years about this list of tax havens that don't want to cooperate on tax transparency. i am glad that the commission has finally committed itself to coming out with this list in a few months. why do i say this? because i think we need to be a lot more decisive here. i think we need to have an initiative in the european union that absolutely no one, no company, no bank, does any kind of business with these tax havens that don't want to cooperate on tax transparency and to get the united states of america and other countries to do the same. and here we are today, surprised to learn that two of the uk's dependent territories have said they don't want to disclose any financial information. i hope that eventually the uk will be able to get them to understand that we need tax transparency.
mr president, first of all, i am sorry that we cannot discuss this in the kalniete report, as our group has proposed, because unfortunately we have not received the support of the other political groups. it is a very important subject, it has been said. the terrorist attacks, including the recent ones in brussels, have led us to question once again the effectiveness of our foreign and security policy choices and, as elmar has also said, the border between internal and external threats. that is why we are now obliged to call for a solution in syria and libya, and why we also want to strengthen cooperation between our police forces, centralize policies on border control, intelligence collection and sharing, simply because the two aspects, internal and external, are terribly linked in the central case of terrorism.
mr president, madam high representative, now that we are talking, the context of the 2014 debate has changed considerably. and this different context calls into question the european union's ability to anticipate and respond. i shall refer to some elements of the security and defence police. i believe that at the moment we need extensive cooperation to secure the external borders of the european union and the contribution of all member states to this end, without distinction between schengen and non-schengen member states. secondly, i believe that in the context of increased terrorist threats, it is vital to define an institutional framework for cooperation in the field of intelligence sharing, as well as well-defined counter-terrorism mechanisms, not just ad hoc and subjective ones. finally, the concrete involvement in the resolution of conflicts in the mena region which must be achieved, as you have also mentioned, through the involvement of the states in the region, through regional ownership which can ensure greater stability. in view of the escalation and diversification of security challenges, cooperation with nato can no longer be optional. our neighbours to the east and south are experiencing a new wave of violence, which we can only respond to through a concerted approach with nato.
madam president, with defence and security clearly in national hands, the csdp has been in effect a crisis management instrument rather than a real tool for our common defence. common defence in the face of external aggression has been entrusted to nato, as the treaties clearly state in article 42.7 and article 222. today, however, if we ask european citizens what they are most afraid of, they will answer that they fear for their lives following the guerrilla warfare brought to our streets by the terrorists. consequently, common defence and security have a clear internal connotation which now overshadows its traditional external dimension. even if we did achieve more in respect of our internal security – see the number of agencies and strategies – there is ample room for improvement, especially in respect of cooperation between national authorities and the eu agencies and even between the various branches of the national authorities. indeed, even if the police, special forces and the military had been deployed simultaneously both in paris and brussels after the attacks, they take orders from their respective separate commands. therefore, apart from improving the interaction between the national authorities and the eu agencies, to have a more efficient response we need to start integrating the upper part of our internal security toolkit with the lower part of our military toolkit so we would have an integrated response.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, first of all let me say i just checked with my officers and i think i replied to the honourable member’s letter just today, so he might receive it tonight or tomorrow morning. then i would like to underline what many members have mentioned in this first debate tonight concerning the links between the internal and external security aspects. indeed today this chamber discussed two aspects on the internal side of our policies on which we also have an external approach: the response to migration and the refugee crisis, and counter-terrorism after the recent attacks in brussels. these are two aspects of our policies that have both an internal and an external angle, and we have developed an approach over recent months – especially inside the commission, but also on the council side – of integrating more and more our internal and external responses. all of this will, i expect, be included in our debate in a couple of hours on the global strategy that we are preparing, because the whole exercise about the global strategy is exactly that of merging different strands of policies that we have inside the european institutions to overcome the gaps that today we know are there in the use of internal and external tools. let me again underline the fact that the debates in this room show that, at parliamentary level too, we have to develop new ways of thinking and dealing with issues, because we have those that deal with internal aspects of our policies discussing terrorism and migration, and those that deal with external aspects of our policies dealing exactly with the same kind of topics, but in two separate meetings and in two separate debates. so again, maybe we could look at innovative ways – different ways – of tackling the same issue from different angles, because this is the added value of the european union. we have so many different tools: internal and external, soft and hard – the so-called comprehensive approach – but then sometimes we are the first ones inside the institutions, including this one, not to have that comprehensive approach. many of the things that have been raised here tonight actually fit in other kinds of debates we will have tonight. that is certainly true for the definition of our role in this world that elmar brok defined as multipolar. i have my doubts that this world is multipolar anymore; we probably lack the poles to define the world as multipolar – we are living in a changing world. but again, this is a strategic debate we will have in a while, as well as the issue that mr danjean raised, which i believe is key, on how we implement the strategies we put in place. here again i would like to come back to this point in our debate on the global strategy, because implementation is the key element of our strategies. it is not the end of it; it is not the subsequence only but it is an integral part, i believe, of our strategies. the other issue that was raised is that there are many other policies and many other priorities – key areas – on which i did not focus tonight. this does not mean that they are not priorities for us. i will name three of them: energy security, which was mentioned just now; our relations with asean, which was mentioned in a previous speech and intervention – i am just back, before being in japan for the g7, from jakarta, where we had an excellent meeting with the asean secretariat for the member states, deciding precisely to proceed on upgrading our relationship to a strategic one; and thirdly, the work we do with the sahel, which is key to our security; it is key to our management of the refugee and migrant flows, and it is key to economic development and global issues as such. but again, i am trying to focus on the immediate and ongoing priorities, as this is the purpose of this debate as i understand it. let me say some final words on an issue on which many of you have commented, which is the european union’s added value or non-added value to foreign security policy. let me say this very clearly: i see a growing awareness among our people, among our european citizens, and even a growing one in our member states, that not even the biggest member states are world powers anymore. i often say that we have two kinds of countries in europe: the small ones and the ones that have not yet realised they are small. but this is the reality of our history. this is the size of foreign policy and also security policy, and there is nothing that any of our member states can do better alone than all together. i think that we are going in the right direction now. i have also heard a lot of this thinking about the united kingdom’s role in the union on foreign and security policy, and let me mention an example that richard howitt mentioned before. we met in london two months ago for the london conference on syria, where the european union as such, together with the member states, provided two thirds of the pledges – two thirds – making the london conference a success. but my example goes beyond that. the uk on that occasion put forward an idea for economic compacts for lebanon and jordan, with creative ideas on how to make the fact that jordan and lebanon are hosting so many refugees, either in refugee camps or in host communities, sustainable in the mid-term. that idea moved forward, and we are now putting it into practice together because – and simply because – the european union put at the disposal of that idea the instruments, especially relating to trade, that made it possible to create this compact, which relates to decisions that the european union, and not one single member state, has the capacity to take. this means that the brilliant uk idea that helps all of the european union and its neighbours has been made possible by a common decision of the union to implement this idea. this is a win-win – more than that, a win-win-win for the uk, for europe and for the neighbourhood. win-win-win: three times, rather than a loss all alone. sure, we still have difficulties and limits, and some things that do not work. but the point is that our role is not to say: it does not work. our role as decision-makers, as policy-makers, is simply to try and make things work, and that is what i believe we are trying to do.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, let me start by saying i am very glad that we are having this debate tonight. the situation in nagorno-karabakh was probably the centre of my talks both in armenia and azerbaijan when i was visiting those countries last month. when i was looking at the last time this issue was discussed in plenary, i saw that it was in 2011, so i am really glad that this parliament is addressing it for the first time in plenary. it is going to be very helpful and useful, because events in nagorno-karabakh are another reminder of how dangerous a protracted conflict can be. just days before the latest and unprecedented escalation, we had cautioned that the status quo was unsustainable. from a tense situation to large-scale hostilities can be a very short step. for this reason, we are increasing our efforts towards a settlement of the conflict. it has already inflicted too much suffering. it continues to pose a threat to regional security in our neighbourhood, and it is an obstacle towards the development of both countries and of the entire region. the south caucuses is a crucial region for europe. it lies at the crossroads between europe, asia and the middle east. it holds a huge potential for growth, but such a potential is held back by instability and war, and again this came out very clearly in my recent talks in both capitals. a large-scale conflict is not in the interests of anyone and can lead nowhere. this conflict hinders the development and the stability of the two countries and of their neighbours, as well as the rapprochement with the european union. as you know, at the beginning of april, the violence surged to a level that was unprecedented since the ceasefire agreement in 1994. we have all seen reports about the use of heavy weapons and the large numbers of casualties, including among the civilian population. statements from baku and yerevan make it clear that there are serious dangers if the situation is not quickly calmed. immediately, on 2 april, i called on the parties to stop the fighting and observe the ceasefire, to show restraint and avoid any further actions or statements that could result in escalation. i have reiterated my support for the osce minsk group and the three co-chairs as the internationally-agreed format for the settlement of this conflict. the eu special representative for the south caucasus, herbert salber, made immediate contact with the parties and kept these contacts regularly. i myself had separate constructive conversations with the foreign ministers of armenia and of azerbaijan. i will stay in contact with them in the coming days and in the coming weeks, and our special representative is visiting the region this week. let me add that i hope that you can contribute to our efforts with your own parliamentary contacts. as you know, i believe very much in parliamentary diplomacy, both with your fellow parliamentarians but also with civil society organisations. we all know the way ahead. the escalation makes it even clearer that the conflict does not have a military solution. developments on the ground demand that we stay vigilant and continue to insist on the strict observance of the ceasefire and on moving forward in the peace process. in particular, the targeting of civilians must stop. but obviously we cannot settle for the status quo. a political solution is what is needed, and our political goal must be that the sides resume negotiations on a comprehensive settlement of the conflict. the minsk group and its co-chairs are there to further mediate, and the eu has supported a settlement on the basis of the madrid principles proposed by the co-chairs. but ultimately we know well that the solution is in the hands of the parties to this conflict. they need to be ready to make meaningful compromises towards peace. in parallel with observing the ceasefire and engaging in negotiations, it is necessary to create an environment that is conducive to progress. actions and statements which could further complicate the already complex environment have to stop. the european union fully supports measures that can help, for instance, with the repatriation of the bodies of dead soldiers to their families. i am encouraged by the mechanism that has been put in place in recent days by the icrc and the osce. we will also need new efforts that can accompany the political process. these include enhanced security measures, such as the osce-proposed mechanism for investigation into the ceasefire violations. this is a mechanism the european union has endorsed. the eu – complementing the efforts of the minsk group co-chairs – has for several years now supported activities that facilitate peaceful contacts between people across the conflict divide. today this work is more important than ever. the conflict settlement will also continue to be part of the eu’s contacts and dialogue with armenia and azerbaijan, as partner countries, as well as with key international stakeholders. as i said, this was at the centre of our talks when i visited both countries a month ago. after this tragic outburst of violence, talking about negotiations and trust might sound out of place. it is not. actually, it is the only rational thing to do. the alternative to negotiations would be more death and more destruction. everyone now understands that the status quo can only lead to more violence, and this is exactly what happened. let us not underestimate the dangers of this conflict, and let us turn the current situation into an opportunity for peace.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, the recent events in nagorno-karabakh show us, once again, that the big problem with so-called frozen conflicts is that they can become hot at any moment. last week, the "thaw" killed 60 people in four days. now, the situation seems to have returned to what is normally called nagorno-karabakh, a fragile ceasefire first established 22 years ago. unfortunately, in the former soviet space, there are many such frozen conflicts -- transnistria, abkhazia, south ossetia, and now eastern ukraine -- and all of these unresolved conflicts have one thing in common: russia's interest in keeping them. for the russian federation, it's about the levers they use to control their neighbors. in the case of nagorno-karabakh, russia is playing on two fronts, because it is an ally of armenia, but on the other hand, it regularly sells weapons to azerbaijan.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, the conflict of about ten days ago should not be underestimated. despite the very little information that managed to escape from the authorities’ control, this was a real large-scale military confrontation which left hundreds dead or wounded on both sides, including civilians. the ceasefire announced on 5 april seems to be holding for the moment, but we have to face the reality that, after more than 20 years, we have no political solution for this frozen conflict but rather a serious aggravation. we call on both sides to show restraint and to stop the confrontation. we also call on the establishment by the osce of a real mechanism to monitor the ceasefire in order to avoid another escalation in this large-scale military confrontation, which carries the risk of the involvement of external actors. it is important that the osce minsk group action is revitalised in order to bring the two sides back to the negotiations. at the same time, it is fundamental that europe is seen to play a more active role by using more for more, bearing in mind the particular relations we have with armenia and with azerbaijan. before i conclude, let me add that we consider the region to be very important, bearing in mind eu leverage. it will be important to reflect on a viable solution. you cannot simply support the minsk group, you must also play an active role within it.
madam president, this month’s escalation in the nagorno-karabakh conflict is not only deeply worrying but simply unacceptable for two reasons. firstly, because it took a toll that will always be too high, and we can never get used to or tolerate the loss of innocent lives. secondly, because what we are witnessing is not only the latest violation of the ceasefire but also the gravest since the agreement was signed in 1994. today, calling for restraint and a cessation of hostilities is no longer enough and is, quite frankly, 22 years too late. the review of the enp puts stabilisation as the main political priority. it is time for the eu to complement strategically the efforts of the osce minsk group, and it is also time for the russian federation to contribute genuinely to peace. how can an osce co-chair be a peace broker and, at the same time, the main arms provider to both countries?
madam president, madam high representative, i would first of all like to congratulate you on your continued involvement in conflict mediation, and at the same time express my concern about the escalation of the conflict in nagorno-karabakh and the daily drama faced by the people of the region. it is clear that a sustainable solution can only exist after the cessation of the use of armed force and the return of the parties to the table of dialogue. thus, in accordance with un decisions and resolutions already adopted by the european parliament since 2010 and until 2015, the parties to this conflict are obliged to immediately start a negotiation process within the terms set by the osce minsk group. concretely, this means an end to violence, the immediate withdrawal of military forces from the occupied territories, respect for territorial integrity, equal rights for the population of the region, the right of displaced persons to return to their homes and acceptance of an international peacekeeping mission in the region.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i would like first of all to reiterate what i have heard from many of you in the chamber: that our support for this process and trying to find the most reasonable way to restart it and proceed in the right way is essential. i would like to echo mr karim’s words, which i find very wise: that while we are there to facilitate, to help, to accompany and to try and find a sustainable solution and sustainable compromise, at the end of the day only the political will of the parties themselves will move things towards a peaceful settlement. this is also part of our efforts: creating a conducive environment, or trying to prevent the environment from becoming disruptive, is also part of our job. i take all your comments on board for our work – for the work of our special representative – which is daily and nightly dedicated to this, with visits in the region this week, and, obviously, staying ready to increasingly engage in these efforts if necessary in the future.
in writing. i welcome this debate on the conclusion of the ceasefire in the nagorno-karabakh area. but i cannot help but notice that we are not here to discuss historical issues, but to find a solution to a reality. the reality is that nagorno-karabakh is a territory that belongs to azerbaijan, and the recent acts are acts of aggression on the part of armenia. we have to take into account the resolutions adopted by the european parliament since 2010 calling on armenia to withdraw its troops from the nagorno-karabakh area and also the four un resolutions on the same subject. the only solution is a policy that forces armenia to respect international law.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, madam rapporteur, you know how much i care about this global strategy, and we also discussed that recently. i would like to thank you personally for your work in this parliament and outside, in this respect. our world has become so unstable and so dangerous that our foreign policy can simply not afford to guess and check. our mistakes can be too costly, as impulsive reactions can lead us to very dangerous places, and we see this every single day. the security of our citizens calls for a coherent, rational and united foreign policy. you also know how much i care about the broad discussions we are having about this strategy. it has been a clear political decision for me. this has to be a strategy not for the european institutions but for our union, and this means it can only be the result of a collective process. all the commissioners have contributed to it. all the member states, in different formations of ministerial meetings, have discussed their comments and proposals. we have involved think tanks, foreign policy experts and civil society representatives. we have organised a student essay competition and have met recently with former erasmus students – and i have to say this was one of the best meetings we have had in the process. obviously the european parliament and the national parliaments have a key role to play, also because you represent directly our citizens, and our citizens know today that foreign policy matters to their lives. so let me thank the rapporteur for the excellent work, as our thinking on many different issues also goes exactly in the same direction. this is also very encouraging to see because our strategy, our common work, will not stop in june when the document is ready, as you said. in the report you ask for a review of the strategy every five years. i agree. this should be a regular exercise we will have to do – five years, or even less maybe. but i believe that the first sections of the strategy on our interests and principles could have the potential to drive our actions for many years – probably even more than five – but at the same time, the strategy will have to be a living document. we need constantly to adapt the priorities we have set with the reality that surrounds us around the world, in our region, and also in terms of implementation. i will come to the implementation in a moment. from day one we will have to work on this, especially on the implementation of the strategy, for instance with sectorial papers and action plans. this is not going to be a phd thesis or an academic dissertation. this has to be a living document on how we achieve our objectives, and i cannot imagine parliament not being involved in the life of this strategy after june. looking at your report it is clear, and i do not need to explain why we have opted for a global strategy and not simply a security strategy like the previous one. for sure, traditional security will be crucial, and security includes defence. still, we all understand that this is not enough. ‘no security without development’ is what we always say, but also ‘no security without democracy, human rights and the rule of law’. i believe the arab awakening should have told us something about this – that security must be sustainable, and sustainable security cannot be achieved through security and defence instruments alone. it requires development, governance, civil society support, climate action and much more. this is why i put resilience at the core of this strategy: the resilience of institutions, the resilience of societies, the resilience of people and the resilience of countries at the end of today. if you understand this, we should also see that our european union can truly be a global power and, i would say, a superpower. we hold in our hands a unique mix of hard and soft power that no other power in the world can use. as a union of 28, we can mobilise public and private investments, soldiers, observers and an unparalleled diplomatic network. this includes your contacts with other parliaments and with civil society organisations worldwide. the real challenge is making the mix of all these assets truly effective with common political guidance, and this is one of the main aims of the strategy. such a mix already makes us incredibly interesting for our global partners. just hours ago i got back from indonesia and japan, and to them – on the other side of the world – it is absolutely clear that the european union is a global power and the partner they want to partner with. i fully agree with the report when it says that there is no contradiction between our role in our neighbourhood and our global engagement. of course we need to prioritise, and of course our neighbours are the top priority, but let us not forget that our neighbourhood is expanding by the day. think of this simple fact. if we exclude syria, the highest number of refugees in europe comes from afghanistan, but there are also migrants from pakistan and refugees from eritrea. these are faraway places and yet so close to us. we need to be a global player because issues are global. we cannot stabilise our immediate neighbourhood if we do not look at the sahel, the horn of africa and central asia, and our stabilisation efforts must account both for the roles played by other global players in these regions and for global causes of instability, such as climate change. we cannot build a new global order based on rules and cooperation if we do not fully engage with our partners far away in latin america or southeast asia. so indeed, everything is interconnected, and the global strategy is just that: a global response to global challenges and global opportunities. let me mention the three principles guiding our external action, in my view. first: engagement, because turning inwards is simply not an option. it would make us more, and not less, vulnerable, as we see when we underline the link between external and internal threats. second: responsibility – thinking of what happens the day after and what we do the day after an action is taken. having clear ideas of why we are taking any single step, what happens next, who are our allies and how we engage with them. we have seen too many mistakes in the past, just because we did not consider the consequences of an action. third: partnership. the days when the weakness of my neighbour was my strength are long gone. you mentioned that. instability in our neighbourhood can only bring instability here in europe, so we need strong neighbours and strong cooperation with our partners in their neighbourhoods. no country alone, not even our union alone, can carry the whole world on its shoulders. engagement, responsibility and partnership: our engagement needs to be responsible and it needs to be cooperative. the strategy will focus on some broad priorities: the starting points for the work ahead. first, the european union must strengthen itself. we need a stronger union. this includes building up our defence and doing so in a cooperative manner; making our intelligence services work together; working against radicalisation in our societies; monitoring hybrid threats; strengthening our energy security, cyber capacities and strategic communications; and preserving the schengen system with new asylum rules. in a phrase, we need a 21st-century approach to security. second, we need to invest in the resilience of states and societies in and around europe, to the east and to the south. we need to support effective and democratic institutions, protect the space of civil society and promote it, address countries of transit and origin of migration, promote socio-economic development, fight climate change and promote energy transitions. this is a complex priority which will need to be fleshed out, country by country, with a targeted approach. we have all the means to make our partners more internally resilient, but we need to focus on every single one to make it happen. third, we must do all we can to put an end to the current crisis in which the state, far from resilient, is on the verge of collapse – from syria to libya, from somalia to south sudan – and we must prevent the next crisis from addressing problems before they boil up and get out of control. these may not get us in the headlines, but it is the most effective way to save human lives and increased collective security. fourth, we must strengthen regional orders, because the causes of conflicts have an increasingly transnational nature. we are seeing this every single day. more often, the key to solving or preventing a crisis lies not only inside the country but in the region. our cooperation with the us and nato, with the african union, celac and asean, are all key. in some parts of the world, like africa, we need to strengthen existing organisations. in other cases, we need new and creative formats. i think of the talks we have on syria that have somehow established a format that is what i call ‘minilateral’ and that is flexible enough to feed into a process like the complex one in the security council of the united nations, managing to bring results in that multilateral format. we need more of that. a network of bilateral, trilateral, sub-regional and regional organisations can be the best base for a more cooperative and more effective multilateral global order. so the last priority must be better global governance that is truly fit for our age. this was a year of important achievements for the international community, from the iranian deal to the sustainable development goals, to cop21. we need to stick to this path and preserve a system based on rules, but we need to work on how we can be imaginative. in a world of predictable unpredictability, the international system as it is does not suffice. we do not need conservation but change if we want to preserve the principle of effective multilateralism. there is only one way to succeed in all this and to achieve our objectives, and this is a truly united europe. i began by saying that our environment has never been so dangerous. i will add that, perhaps for the first time in our history, the european union faces an existential threat. but these threats do not come from outside our borders. the only existential threat against the european union comes from our internal divisions, the petty nationalisms, the finger-pointing and the lack of forward-looking leadership. we discussed this early this afternoon when we discussed our response to terrorism inside the european union. i still believe we can make it, and we must make it – together with this parliament, which is the best ally in this fight – for the security and benefit of all our citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all, i would like to express my admiration for the high representative, who has been with us for eight hours now, as she returns from hiroshima. so, we really appreciate you being available to discuss all of these matters with us. secondly, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs sandra kalniete, on her excellent report. this report sums up very well parliament's view of the union's priorities in terms of foreign and security policy. in the debates we had in the foreign affairs committee, i stressed that the european union must have a strong voice in international politics and for this we need the solidarity of the member states and also, of course, resources. in my amendments i have emphasized the priorities of the union. i mentioned three: first, improving our ability to anticipate conflict and crisis, but also to respond quickly to those crises. secondly, i stressed the need to contribute to the stabilization and pacification of our neighbourhood in the east as well as in the south, without forgetting any of its parts. and thirdly, i stressed the need to maintain our commitments on enlargement. i think that in this terrible identity crisis we are experiencing in europe, we must be courageous, we must say things that are not sympathetic to the opponents of europe. you don't play their game and be soft. it is a matter of great courage, especially when we are dealing with a subject such as enlargement. we shall be discussing the enlargement report tomorrow. (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will be very brief, first of all because many of the comments are simply comments that need to be taken on board when drafting the final stage of the strategy. secondly, because at the various types of meetings, both with this parliament and the national parliaments, we have had occasion to discuss many of these issues raised here. thirdly, because the rapporteur has done excellent work in somehow incorporating the different aspects of the concerns and the suggestions of the european parliament into a single contribution that will obviously be reflected in our work. i will comment only on two things. one is the policy coherence element: this is exactly the kind of exercise we are trying to do. this is also reflected very well in the report. we need to ensure coherence between different institutions, different instruments, different policies and sometimes even different priorities within different policies. we have an enormous amount of tools, but we do not necessarily use them in a coordinated and coherent way. i will also comment on the last comment that was made: the need maybe to have a mogherini plan or something similar. this would cover for the reconstruction of and support for the middle east but also africa, because we have seen the development of trust funds recently and because we need to mobilise resources on specific strategic targets we have as a european union. this strategy will not, i hope, entail extraordinary plans or measures but rather the pooling of the resources we already have, which are consistent. i hope that we manage to marshal these resources in a natural, coordinated and ordered way to serve our strategic priorities. we all know today what the priorities of tomorrow will be: the reconstruction of the middle east, a major investment in the future of africa. we can continue like this and the strategy will be exactly this. so if we manage to be serious on the definition of the strategy and on the implementation of the strategy, i think we will no longer need emergency measures.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, let me start by saying that this debate is indeed important. central asia is a region that is increasingly recognised as strategically important. that is why i believe it is quite a shame that we have to have this late night debate with 11 members of parliament in the room while we discuss a highly strategic, important issue. central asia needs to feature high on our foreign policy agenda for a number of reasons. in the previous debate we talked about a more connected world. in a more connected world the most ancient global trade route can only become more relevant. central asia stands at the crossroads between europe, russia and asia. europe and central asia share many interests, from peace in afghanistan to the fight against foreign fighters. for this reason we are engaging directly with all countries in the region. as you know, last year i decided to nominate an eu special representative to central asia – peter burian – going back on a previous decision to remove this position. i personally began discussing the strategy review with central asian ministers of foreign affairs in astana last december. asia’s economic slowdown and the threat against our security are making it very clear, for both us and central asia, that we have a strong interest in reinforcing our cooperation. cooperation with the european union is not an alternative to cooperation with other global powers, namely russia and china. this is not about expanding our sphere of influence; we as europeans do not have that kind of mentality. your report rightly notes that on a number of issues, such as economic development and connectivity, that are key to the region and to us, some kind of cooperation between our european union, china and russia can only benefit both central asia and ourselves. there is space and desire inside the region, as you mentioned, for a more active and result-oriented cooperation between europe and each of the central asian states. we cannot consider central asia to be a non-differentiated bloc. the 2015 review of the strategy reflects some asian partners’ eagerness to distinguish themselves from their neighbours, including in their ambitions to take forward their relationship with europe. for example, the signature of the epca with kazakhstan and the first discussions on an announced format of a partnership with kyrgyzstan signalled these countries’ willingness to go beyond the strategy on an ad hoc basis. we need to seek the right combination of individual and regional approaches, because many of the challenges the countries of central asia face require common solutions. a regional approach is therefore required. water, trafficking and border management, the rising threat of radicalisation, and limited international trade are all issues which call for trans-border coordination. this has already been a specific focus of our regional approach. the areas of education, the rule of law and the environment have been given particular attention. we want to reinforce our common action on these issues and intensify interaction between experts through existing platforms and projects. an ambitious working programme has been set up, for example under the education platform, and we welcome here the commitment and close cooperation of several member states, such as poland and latvia. parliament’s report and the strategy review also underlined economic and commercial relations, and the wish to promote business and investment in the region. this would be possible with the necessary development of a reliable investment climate which calls for, on their side, more work in the fight against corruption, developing interconnections with the international business community and further regional integration. in this respect, like you, we are following with concern certain negative developments in central asia concerning human rights and basic freedoms. let me say, my dialogue with leaders and ministers of the region on all these issues was very frank and very open. it is in their own interest to look for another way. in this regard we want to make better use of existing platforms and dialogues to look for positive solutions. the special representative for central asia is preparing a joint trip to kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan in april with the commission’s directorate-general for international cooperation and development to discuss these issues and put forward positive steps. eu development cooperation can assist countries of the region in dealing with the challenges they are facing. among these we cannot forget the many threats to regional security and stability. regional security will be discussed again in the upcoming meetings of the central asian border security initiative in april in bishkek and of the high-level security dialogue in brussels in may. we are satisfied with the support provided by the rule of law initiative and the new face of border management and drug action programmes. many of these are shared threats for europe and central asia. we share an interest in the stabilisation of afghanistan and have asked regional leaders to actively contribute to the preparation of the conference on afghanistan which we will host in brussels in october. we all deal with the return of foreign terrorist fighters from theatres of conflict in the middle east and elsewhere, and we all know that our youth is exposed to radicalisation. links between europe and central asia date back centuries, but every single day we on both sides understand a bit better how much we need each other. i know you see this very well and i know we can count on your help in defining a new fruitful relationship with central asia.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i welcome the revision of the central asia strategy, the fact that education and sustainable and inclusive economic development are priorities of the strategy, and the 56% increase in assistance by 2020. i stress the importance and necessity of cooperation with the states of the region in preventing and combating terrorism. but for an effective strategy, we need concrete action plans, tailored to each country. the importance of existing agreements with the central asian states is recognised, and i note that the turkmenistan agreement is the only one still awaiting ratification by the european parliament in the vote in july this year. i am confident that the high representative will support the monitoring mechanism, through which parliament will be informed and consulted on the implementation of the agreement once it enters into force. and i also ask you, madam high representative, to support the transformation of the current liaison office in ashgabat into a permanent delegation of the european union in turkmenistan to allow, among other things, better monitoring of the human rights situation.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr kamall, you have said many times that pragmatism, additional measures are needed. we all know and need to understand solidarity and the need for humanism. i ask you, if you were the president of the commission, what would you do to implement what you say needs to be done, because you have said many times what needs to be done, but not how. if you were the commission president, what would you do?
blue-card question.– as was mentioned this morning in this chamber, the agreement with turkey is not perfect, but it seems it is a step forward anyway. what do you think the european union should do if this agreement is denounced? mr erdoğan declared last week that, if the eu does not fulfil its obligations, turkey could denounce it any time.
in writing. ‒ on 16 february 2016, the commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by five enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), notably in the nuts 2 region upper norrland (se33) in sweden. the request concerns 500 workers made redundant. the swedish authorities argue that the redundancies in question are the result of developments in recent years affecting the european commercial vehicle industry, in particular the truck industry, due to asian competition and the adaptation difficulties of this industry, which is forced to increase efficiency and reduce costs. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (request from sweden egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks), because the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices and i believe that this support will lead to a remedying of imbalances in the european commercial vehicle industry, in particular the truck manufacturing industry.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund supports workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. i voted to direct some of the money from the egf to help a group of 500 workers laid off in swedish factories. they will receive in-depth assessments and all the help they need to find a job.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is the second application to be examined under the 2016 budget and the 22nd for the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 793 710 from the egf for sweden. it concerns 500 workers made redundant. the application was sent to the commission on 16 september 2015 and supplemented by additional information up to 11 november 2015. we have concluded, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf.
in writing. ‒ the eu has the necessary instruments to help workers who are suffering from major structural changes in world trade patterns. this egaf funding shall help 500 former workers to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ on the 16th of september 2015 sweden has submitted an application to the european commission requesting a contribution of almost eur 1.8 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 500 workers of volvo trucks made redundant in västerbotten province in the north of sweden. volvo trucks umeå plant and four other suppliers were affected by these redundancies. arctic labour markets in small populated areas are more fragile due to their geographical isolation and severe weather conditions thus making job creation and employment more costly than other areas. redundancies like the one in västerbotten´s province umeå plant bring a major shock to the regional economy. i have voted for this report that will help and support the workers made redundant to find jobs by upgrading their skills, preparing them for new opportunities, providing them with guidance, training, job-search support, advice on entrepreneurship and business creation, as well as job-search allowances and travel expenses.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden, following the redundancies in the car and trailer manufacturing sector by volvo trucks. it is expected that 500 of the 647 redundant workers eligible for egf contributions will participate in these measures. the commission also found that the union industry had suffered material injury during the period considered. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by 11% during the period considered. we invite member states to develop strategies with the social partners to anticipate expected changes in the labour market and to protect jobs and skills in the union, based on comprehensive trade impact assessments by the commission for each trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the negrescu report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the 500 redundant employees of volvo trucks in sweden with eur 1.8 million. i believe that the european union must support workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of companies and i hope that a solution to support oltenitsa workers will be found as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ on 16 september 2015, the swedish authorities submitted an application to mobilise a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to facilitate the redeployment and re-employment of 647 workers made redundant at volvo trucks and four downstream suppliers and manufacturers in sweden. the divestments in question are the result of developments that have affected the european commercial vehicle industry in recent years, in particular the truck industry, due to asian competition and the adaptation difficulties of this industry. i support the commission decision to mobilise the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by five enterprises involving the mobilisation from the egf of a total amount of eur 1 793 710 for sweden. i consider that this measure is particularly necessary for the automotive, trailer and semi-trailer industry, which is slow to adjust to the major structural changes in world trade practices brought about by globalisation.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. this proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the egf reserve for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. pursuant to article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, each year a proportion of 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. in order to promote the relationship between member states, the commission will organise two seminars with the participation of the bodies implementing the egf and the social partners. as far as possible, they will be scheduled around the same dates as the expert group meetings and will focus on issues arising from the practical implementation of the egf regulation at local level. i voted in favour of this report because the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information activities, create a knowledge base interface and provide advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. these things are important because they will ensure better information to the general public about the egf.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in international trade practices. the economic crisis, as well as the automation of industrial processes, have led to an increasing number of people losing their jobs. i voted to develop and modernize this fund.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the measures proposed by the commission as technical assistance and recall the importance of networking and the exchange of information on egf and therefore supports the funding of the expert group of people contact egf and networking seminars on the implementation of the egf. i hope that this exchange of information will contribute to the development of better and more detailed reports on the success rate of the egf in the member states, particularly on the scope and rate of re-employment of beneficiaries; i also support all initiatives in favour of increased participation and consultation of local authorities who daily manage the measures supported by the egf.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was formed to support people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. for the 2016 the provided egf contribution for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission of eur 380 000 is intended to cover different activities as monitoring and data gathering, information, creation of knowledge base, administrative and technical support, as well as audit, evaluation and control activities. i have voted in favour for this report taking into consideration that these financed activities should improve the simplification of the application procedure and its visibility.
in writing. ‒ since 2007, when it started its work, the egf has helped tens of thousands of people who were made redundant as a result of the economic crisis and the effects of globalisation to find new jobs or to re-orient themselves professionally. i think this program needs to grow. not just any way, but in a responsible way. for example, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of support measures for young people up to 25 years of age who are not in employment and do not follow any educational programme is needed. we need to see the impact on the labor market and how far we can extend funding to help them. romania has also benefited from this fund. in 2013, over 5 000 people who lost their jobs as a result of redundancies received some eur 2,9 million. the commission's technical assistance is important for the proper implementation and dissemination of this money, but above all we need proper monitoring. i think the most important thing is that the support that is allocated to people reaches people and doesn't get lost in the pockets of fraud and in an endless chain of bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of 380 000 euro from the european globalisation fund to cover technical assistance for the commission. i have voted for this report that is intended to cover monitor and data gathering, information and website maintenance, creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support through the establishment of an expert group of contact persons regarding egf, consisting of one member from each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides that 0,5% of the maximum annual budget available for the egf may be allocated to technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the aim is to finance training, monitoring, data collection and knowledge base building, technical and administrative assistance, information and communication activities, as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. we support the funding of the egf contact person expert group and other activities to ensure reporting on the implementation of the egf. we hope that this exchange of information will also contribute to a better and more detailed reporting on the success rate of measures supported by the egf in the member states, in particular as regards the number of people who have benefited from them and the rate of reintegration of beneficiaries into employment.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. this proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the egf reserve for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information activities, to create a knowledge base interface and to provide advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the activities financed will also contribute to simplifying the application procedure, ensuring better information to the general public on the egf and encouraging the visibility of this instrument. in particular, i welcome the integration of reporting into the electronic data exchange system (sfc2014). i consider that sfc2014 could also be used to enable the commission to obtain detailed information on the impact of the egf funding, in particular as regards the reintegration rates of redundant workers who have benefited from egf funding. i support the adoption of this report and i am confident that this exchange of information will also contribute to better and more detailed reporting on the success rate of applications in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget no 1/2016: a new instrument for the provision of emergency support in the union. emergency humanitarian assistance is needed due to the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe, where an exceptional situation has been created due to the fact that a large number of people are in need of assistance, which exceeds the organisational capacity of one or more member states. the commission proposes the creation of an instrument that will allow the union to provide financial support, for example through partner organisations, which are able to implement urgent action quickly in support of those member states that are most affected. the commission proposes, by means of this draft amending budget, to make available a first tranche of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations to cover the immediate financing needs of the instrument. the commission will use transitional measures to address immediate needs until the entry into force of the new instrument and the proposed amending budget.
in writing. ‒ parliament has always reacted promptly to initiatives presented in the context of the refugee crisis. the massive influx of refugees into europe has created an exceptional situation where, at the moment, some 55 000 refugees are stranded in greece, a country with a difficult economic situation. i voted in favour of putting this new instrument into practice, which will enable the union to respond to the needs of those affected by this exceptional situation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal by the commission to enable the union budget to provide emergency support within the union territory in order to tackle the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be envisaged in order to allow for humanitarian aid within the union to be mobilised in the future, when circumstances so require; such emergency funding, meant at responding to crises and unforeseen situations, should by its very nature be covered by special instruments and be counted outside the mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ the commission estimates that this new instrument should provide emergency support within the union of approximate 300 million eur in 2016, 200 million eur in 2017 and 200 million eur in 2018. also, additional need could appear if migrant’s flows continue to increase. i have voted for this report that brings a more sustainable budgetary and legislative framework that would allow humanitarian aid within the eu in the future.
in writing. ‒ the massive influx of refugees and migrants that entered europe has created an exceptional situation where a large number of people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance within the union. i have voted for this report that will build a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework that will allow humanitarian aid to be mobilised within the union in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a new instrument for the provision of emergency aid within the union. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 5 million. in the future, a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be provided to allow humanitarian aid to be mobilised within the union when circumstances so require. given its specific nature, this emergency funding, intended to be a response to crises and unforeseen situations, should be made available through special instruments and should not be subject to the ceilings set out in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an exceptional situation, with large numbers of people in need of urgent humanitarian assistance within the union. this emergency situation has pushed the limits of the response capacity of the member states most affected. there is no adequate instrument at union level to address the humanitarian needs of the population affected by disasters on eu territory. on 2 march 2016, the commission presented a proposal for a council regulation aimed at filling the gaps in the available instruments to respond to humanitarian needs in the union. the commission subsequently presented a draft amending budget with a view to creating the appropriate budgetary structure for the proposed instrument; eur 300 million is needed for this new instrument in 2016. i support the commission's proposed solution as a matter of urgency and support the adoption of draft amending budget no 1/2016 as a first step towards a comprehensive strategy to address the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ in appointing a new member of the court of auditors, both article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 121 of the rules of procedure were taken into account, and the committee on budgetary control subsequently assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty, which directly concerns the functioning of the eu. after hearing the council's proposed candidate for membership of the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors, leaving only the president to forward the decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors and the other eu institutions as well as to the audit institutions of the member states. i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors samo jereb, as i consider that he has sufficient professional experience to be a member of the court of auditors and that his appointment as a member will bring a plus to the eu and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing mr samo jereb as a member of the european court of auditors. he is a consummate professional, with a career of over 20 years in the field of audit, with outstanding results at the helm of the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. i supported his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the nomination of the member of the court of auditors, samo jereb.
in writing. ‒ i have voted the nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in appointing a new member of the court of auditors, both article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 121 of the rules of procedure were taken into account, which were consulted by the council, and the committee on budgetary control subsequently assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty, which directly concerns the functioning of the eu. as soon as the committee on budgetary control had heard the candidate proposed by the council to be a member of the court of auditors, the commission gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. the only task left is that of the president - to forward the decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors and the other eu institutions, as well as to the audit institutions in the member states. i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors mihails kozlovs, as i consider that he has sufficient experience to bring a great plus to the court of auditors, to all eu institutions, and to the audit institutions in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. i abstained because of the ongoing process in the regional court in latvia.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the nomination of the member of the court of auditors, mihails kozlovs.
in writing. ‒ i have voted the nomination of mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors jan gregor because i have consulted his cv and i believe that he has sufficient knowledge to be a member of the court of auditors and at the same time i believe that he will bring a great advantage to both the eu institutions and the audit institutions of the member states. after hearing the candidate proposed by the council to be a member of the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. the only task left is that of the president - to forward the decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors and the other eu institutions, as well as to the audit institutions in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. i abstained on this nomination because of the poor presentation in committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the nomination of the member of the court of auditors, jan gregor.
in writing. ‒ i have voted the nomination of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors ladislav balko, because by tracing his work both in his home country and within the institutions he has managed, he can only bring a great plus to the court of auditors, the eu institutions and the audit institutions in all the member states. after hearing the candidate proposed by the council to be a member of the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control gave its favourable opinion on the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. the final step is for the president to forward the decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors and the other eu institutions, as well as to the audit authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. this candidacy was a renewal. i voted against his renewal because his presentation was very poor, insufficient for an eca member with experience in the field.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the nomination of the member of the court of auditors, ladislav balko.
in writing. ‒ i have voted the nomination of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in the light of both article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 121 of the rules of procedure, which were consulted by the council with a view to appointing a new member of the court of auditors, the qualifications of the proposed candidate have been assessed, taking into account the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. after hearing the council's proposed candidate for membership of the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control has given a favourable opinion on the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, and the final step is for the president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, to both the court of auditors and the other eu institutions, as well as to the audit institutions in the member states. i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors janusz wojciechowski, as i believe that he will be an important pawn in the court of auditors and will bring a great plus to the european institutions as well as to the institutions of the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. i supported this candidacy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the nomination of the member of the court of auditors of janusz wojciechowski.
in writing. ‒ i have voted the nomination of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate, given that the commission's proposal was based on the epsa studies which clearly and unequivocally stated that this substance had not been shown to be potentially harmful to human health. furthermore, there are sufficiently clear provisions governing the possibility and even the obligation to withdraw a substance from the market when it is found that it could become harmful to animal health. moreover, the withdrawal of that substance from the market and the control of weeds by mechanical means would cause climatic disturbances as a result of the release of gases from agricultural machinery into the air, which would greatly exacerbate the phenomenon known as the 'greenhouse effect'. however, i believe that research needs to continue in order to identify mechanisms and solutions that will allow effective weed control and at the same time guarantee human health.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a herbicide that kills all vegetation, regardless of its nature, and is used in agriculture in 76% of cases. i voted to classify this herbicide as a risk factor and carcinogen, as it very often interacts with household use or food. i voted to give the burden of testing to the food and veterinary office to monitor glyphosate residues. the commission and efsa should also urgently present the evidence that led to the classification and authorisation of glyphosate, despite its carcinogenicity and therefore its major risk factor.
in writing. ‒ there are contradicting opinions regarding glyphosate, with a who international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classifying glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans after evaluating a large body of scientific evidence, and the european food safety authority (efsa) dismissing any danger while basing its decision on unpublished studies commissioned by the industry. moreover, there are serious doubts as regards a possible mode of action in relation to the endocrine disrupting properties of glyphosate, and in the absence of proper scientific horizontal criteria an endocrine-mediated mode of action cannot be ruled out. the objection opposes the draft measure on the grounds that the draft implementing act fails to ensure a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment, fails to apply the precautionary principle, is therefore not compatible with the aim and the content of the basic instrument, and exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. i believe the commission should not renew the approval of glyphosate and should rapidly ensure an independent review of the classification of glyphosate based on all available scientific evidence relating to carcinogenicity of glyphosate as well as possible endocrine disruptive properties.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the objection regarding the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate due to the serious doubts regarding its carcinogenic effect on humans. this issue appeared after evaluating a large body of scientific evidence by the who agency for research on cancer (iarc).
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a herbicide used by farmers to kill weeds without killing their crops and in 2007 it was the most used herbicide in the united states agricultural sector. i have voted for this report that will enable an independent review of the classification of glyphosate based on all available scientific evidence relating to its carcinogenic nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the european commission and the european food safety authority to make public all the information they have on the active substance glyphosate. the possibility that this substance, widely used in agriculture, forestry and gardening, is carcinogenic is a matter of concern. in this regard, i support the clarification and publication of this public interest information, the testing of the presence of this substance in food and the presentation of the results on the implications for human health.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority and an agency of the world health organisation have drawn contrasting conclusions about the possible harmful effects of glyphosate. this shows that further investigation is necessary before the substance is authorised for another 15 years. it is not unusual that scientific bodies disagree, but such a profound difference between agencies of this stature cannot be ignored by the commission. it is appropriate to conduct a thorough review of glyphosate and its classification, and also to consider whether eu level authorisation of the active substance and then separate, national authorisation for herbicide and pesticide products is really the best way to ensure the highest standards of health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because the evidence on the effects of glyphosate use is contradictory. we have, on the one hand, studies proving that this substance is carcinogenic and, on the other hand, the efsa decision that removes any negative charge regarding the mode of action of glyphosate. we need scientific evidence, independent studies to classify this substance and to clarify the impact of its use on human health. in view of this uncertain situation and pending a conclusive analysis, the commission should renew the authorisation of glyphosate for a limited period of 7 years instead of 15 years as originally provided for.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is an active substance widely used in herbicides. the approval of the active substance glyphosate in the eu expires on 30 june 2016. the draft measure subject to this objection renews the approval of the active substance glyphosate for the maximum permissible period of 15 years. the who international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classifies glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans after evaluating a large body of scientific evidence. moreover, there are serious doubts as regards possible mode of action in relation to the endocrine disrupting properties of glyphosate. the objection also fails to ensure a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment, fails to apply the precautionary principle, and is therefore not compatible with the aim and the content of the basic instrument. based on this, i do not support the renewal of the approval of glyphosate. i believe the commission should rapidly ensure an independent review of the classification of glyphosate based on all available scientific evidence relating to carcinogenicity of glyphosate as well as possible endocrine disruptive properties.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is one of the best-selling herbicide pesticides worldwide. this substance has been on the market since 1974 and currently accounts for 25% of the world pesticide market. in 2014, 825 million tons of glyphosate were used globally, 90% of it in agriculture. it is also used to control the growth of uncultivated herbaceous plants in gardens or in uncultivated areas. in a study by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), it classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans, despite other assessments by supranational institutes and national regulatory agencies concluding that glyphosate is not carcinogenic. moreover, it is not yet known what was the basis of the iarc assessment, as the iarc monograph has not been published. the european parliament's motion for a resolution refers in particular to the precautionary principle and the need to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment. it also proposes to extend the authorisation for a maximum of seven years, the time needed to carry out the studies. i therefore voted in favour of the objection on the renewal of the approval.
i voted for this report in the end. some of the points that concern the defence capabilities of individual eu member states are very correct, such as the fact that our key partner for the future must be the united states of america, and that nato is the key organisation for european security. i think it is important to note that we are calling on the individual member states to increase their defence spending to 2% of their gdp. i think that is very correct, it is not possible for us here in europe to feel that defence is not our concern and that we can use money in the national budgets for various blasphemous things, not for our own defence capability. on the other hand, i have some doubts about the common defence union. i would not agree with a model that would be in competition with nato, i think it is better to cooperate with nato than to create some parallel defense structure of our own.
mr president, in 2013 the european council gave concrete tasks to the european commission on: 1. a global security procurement regime; 2. the control of defence industrial capacity; and 3. the monitoring of security and defence procurement. but the commission has not fulfilled its tasks in time and this has cost us and is costing us lives today. the european army must become a reality as soon as possible. it is vital to strengthen the partnership between the european union and nato and to address the safety and security gap in the wider european union neighbourhood. if there is a time and a place and a moment for solidarity, it is today, here and now, to stand together and to be able to stand together to defend the lives, the freedom and the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of challenges today that threaten the stability of the union, which is why a strong political will is needed on the part of both the union and the member states to respond effectively to these challenges and to maintain the values promoted by the union. collective responsibility and solidarity must be reflected in the union's policies, in particular in the common foreign and security policy. threats to member states must be seen as threats to the union as a whole, and solidarity and unity are needed. clear identification and hierarchy of concrete threats is required to formulate appropriate responses and institute coherent measures in line with the resources required. in the light of recent terrorist attacks, there is a need to develop strong security policies to ensure the safety of citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a comprehensive common approach based on solidarity is needed in response to the challenges that threaten internal and external security, and that synergies between external action, human rights and security are needed.
in writing. ‒ in a constant process of globalisation, the eu is becoming increasingly complex, trying to cope with current challenges and risks. in this context, the effects of the crisis that have disrupted the entire global financial and economic system continue to be an important source of vulnerabilities and, by implication, insecurity at national, regional and global levels. the economy is the fuel without which national power, whether political, social or military, cannot function at normal parameters. i support the identification of new ways to achieve better results, such as the principle that member states should spend at least 2% of gdp on defence spending by 2024, to implement the union's foreign and security policy objectives. energy security can also play a fundamental role in the development of the union, complementing the european objectives of re-industrialisation and economic growth. i conclude that we must work together today for the european union of tomorrow. we need a new strategy, one that is ready to respond to crisis situations and with the ability to recover immediately after attacks. we must realise that the eu has the capacity to spread european values, which are meant to restore unity, peace and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the report recognises the united states as key strategic partner of the eu, stresses the need for the eu and its member states to take greater responsibility for their collective security and to be more active in europe’s own neighbourhood, making full use of the lisbon treaty provisions on csdp. i strongly believe we need to promote the strategic autonomy of the eu and its capacity to act in synergy but also autonomously from nato. i advocate an eu that is a real international actor capable of shaping the developments and dealing with a rapidly changing global environment and mounting security challenges. i urge, therefore, the eu member states to work in synergy, develop their defence capabilities and pool and share them more effectively. the eu needs to be more active in its neighbourhood and be capable of preventing and managing crises and conflicts that represent challenges for the security of eu citizens too.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu is an important international actor which has the capacity to deal with a changing global environment and numerous challenges to our security. the eu should be more active in its neighbourhood. we have to be capable of preventing and managing crises and conflicts that also represent challenges for the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ to defend the european union’s people, and its states, societies and values is one of the top priorities of the eu. i have voted for this report that should improve the eu’s strategy by identifying and prioritising threats and challenges, defining a response to the situation and determining the necessary resources for implementation.
in writing. ‒ given the ever increasing volatile regional security environment i support this timely resolution, as it emphasises the urgency of setting out a shared eu global strategy. as the resolution stresses, no member state can alone respond to the many security challenges we face today at home and abroad. thus, a shared eu global strategy with a clear analysis of a wider set of threats to european society and in turn formulated responses to such threats should be a priority to identify. for the eu to become an influential global actor a unified voice is required. speaking from a common foreign and security policy platform is therefore necessary for the eu to globally retain political credibility, allowing it to be an instrument of diplomacy by spreading the values of democracy, good governance, peace, stability, the rule of law and the protection of human rights outside eu borders.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to security challenges for the eu and advocates a more strategic role for the european union as an international actor. this document stresses the need for the eu and its member states to take greater responsibility in what concerns their collective security and be more active in europe’s own neighbourhood, making full use and respect of the lisbon treaty provisions. at the same time, it calls on the european union to make use of diplomatic, economic and all other tools that it has at its disposal to promote security, stability and prosperity. we want an eu that is a real international actor able to shape the developments and deal with a rapidly changing global environment and mounting security challenges. so this report urges the eu member states to work in synergy, develop their defence capabilities and to pool and share them more effectively. the eu needs to be more active and be capable of preventing and managing crises and conflicts that represent challenges also for the eu citizen’s security. the truth is that the eu can and must do better. for this reason, i support the report.
in writing. ‒ in the current geopolitical context, the european union faces challenges and threats from state and non-state actors, internal and external. member states and the european union must show firmness and leadership in order to respond collectively and as effectively as possible to guarantee the safety, values and societal model that the eu promotes. i believe that priority should be given to stabilising the eu's immediate neighbourhood, taking into account the threats identified in the 2003 european security strategy on terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, failed states and organised crime, which unfortunately remain largely topical. the vote in favour of the report on the eu in a changing global environment underlines that human security, the defence of peoples, societies and values must be at the heart of the european union's strategy. enhanced cooperation for defence research must be pursued while respecting human rights and democratisation.
in writing. ‒ the eu's central asia strategy is becoming all the more important as security threats and challenges are increasingly present and strong cooperation is needed. it is important that the union maintains its interest in strengthening its bilateral relations with the countries of central asia, based on the same values. the interest must be in the human rights situation, democracy, but also in the sustainability and prosperity of the countries of central asia, so that they become strong regions, capable of responding to the current difficulties. the review of this strategy focuses on enhanced cooperation to improve the economic situation, but also internal and external security. respect for democracy is also a key component, and joint efforts by both sides are needed to ensure respect for freedoms. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only close cooperation between the union and central asia will be able to lay the foundations for the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the central asian region to the eu is underlined, from both economic and geostrategic perspectives, security and cooperation. the central asian region currently has a diversity of natural resources, fossil fuels and arable land. it is also recalled that central asia is in the zone of exposure to various natural hazards, being one of the most seismically active areas. i voted for the construction, modernization and reliability of the 'silk road', which is a valid and decisive point of interest for china, russia and the eu. the development of programmes on business links between fdi and smes for the faster identification of investments is also of particular importance. i also voted for the importance of increasing education levels, which can lead to a decrease in violence and the potential for radicalization among young people. the budget support that the eu could provide should be strictly linked to the achievements of the countries of the central asian region in the field of human rights, democracy or fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as women play a key role in agricultural production and cultivation in all central asian countries, i believe that all central asian countries must encourage employment and entrepreneurship among women, especially in rural areas. i also believe that the promotion and monitoring of economic and social rights and the empowerment of women and girls must be the main objectives of the eu's external relations with the region.
in writing. ‒ the report is a european parliament contribution to the review of the eu central asia strategy. the region is seen as acquiring a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies, security and counter-terrorism. at the same time, the human rights situation throughout the region’s countries remains appalling and shows no sign of improving, with the partial exception of kyrgyzstan, where it was relatively less bad than in other countries. i support the eu’s deeper engagement with the central asian states, where important security and energy interests lie. at the same time, this engagement should not be pursued at the expense of democratic values. i am especially in favour of fighting extremist organisations like daesh, al-qaeda and taliban in the region, and of the adoption of specific recommendations concerning a better coordination and cooperation between the security services in the region, but also stressing the need to engage in dialogue with non-violent organisations as a way of reducing the terrorist threat.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu should engage more with central asian states, mostly in terms of security, counter-terrorism and energy. however, the eu should also tread carefully when making agreements as there are still deep concerns with regard to the human rights situation in the region.
in writing. ‒ the european union external action service, otherwise known as the eeas, is the eu’s diplomatic service that helps carry out the union’s common foreign and security policy. i have voted for this report that reiterates the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the european union's external policy on central asia needs to be reinvigorated in the current international political and economic context, especially as this relationship is a 'win-win' one for both partners. considering that central asia has experienced significant economic growth in recent years and that some european states have already built a stable bilateral relationship with the countries in this area, i believe and believe that the european union should have the same strategy. i also supported this report because i also consider the potential contribution of the european community to the countries of central asia in terms of human rights, democracy, education, freedom of the press, gender equality, the environment.
in writing. ‒ central asia has a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies and counter-terrorism. at the same time, the human rights situation throughout the region’s countries remains lamentable and shows no sign of improvement, with the exception of kyrgyzstan, where it was relatively less bad than in other countries to begin with. this document, which is reviewing the european strategy on central asia, makes it clear that the eu engagement should not be pursued at the expense of democratic fundamental values. in addition, this document reflects realistically the part on fighting extremist organisations in the region, with some recommendations on better coordination and cooperation. therefore, i support the report and the eu’s deeper engagement with the central asian states, where important security and energy interests lie. at the same time, i think that this engagement should not be pursued at the expense of democratic values.
in writing. ‒ the central asian region is of particular importance to the european union from the perspective of economic potential, energy diversification, as well as geostrategic and security interests. the european parliament resolution underlines the importance of strengthening relations between the european union and the countries of central asia. although the eu strategy for central asia was revised during 2015, the approach to achieving the objectives of that strategy should be revised. priorities should be better adapted to the interests, requirements and framework conditions of the central asian partner states, taking into account, of course, the differences between the countries of the region, but also the uniqueness of each. the resolution urges the member states of the union to speak with one voice and to promote the coherence and coordination of external policies in the region and calls on the commission, the council and the european external action service to adopt a concrete action plan with clear and specific measurable objectives, which will allow for the most accurate and fair assessment of results and future progress. i voted in favor of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus has become a real threat to citizens, spreading at an alarming rate. there are currently no treatments or vaccines to combat the effects of this virus, so prevention and personal protection measures are very important. at union level, specific measures are required for regions where zika virus has already spread, in order to eradicate all possible transmission methods in those regions. furthermore, support is needed for people already infected. an immediate action plan is also needed to help both member states and third countries to combat this epidemic in the worst affected areas. i welcome the commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million to research into the zika virus and efforts to find effective solutions against this virus. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a joint effort by the member states and the union is needed to eradicate this virus and ensure a high level of protection of human health.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic, tabled following the debate in last month's plenary, which aims to bring some lines of action in tackling this epidemic at both european and global level through eu support to the most affected regions. as we stated in our written statement last month, our goals are clear: prevent and treat the epidemic. to do that, we need to focus our efforts on finding a vaccine against zika. however, research should also be encouraged through horizon 2020 and beyond. the commission must then commit itself to ensuring that, following the results of the research, patients receive treatment at affordable prices. the european centre for disease prevention and control also has a key role in this process through its continuous monitoring and to which we recommend in this resolution to regularly assess the risks of the epidemic and update the epidemiological reports. as regards prevention, i would stress that both the commission and the member states must act to monitor invasive mosquito species and to eliminate their breeding grounds.
in writing. ‒ as the spread of the zika virus in several european countries is a danger, i believe that the european union should support the governments of the affected countries in providing information and allocating eu funds for research that should focus mainly on prevention measures to avoid the spread of the virus, but also on treatments. treatments and vaccines and tests for rapid and effective diagnosis are needed.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that experts agreed that a causal relationship between zika infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected, although this has not yet been scientifically proven and therefore all possible causes of microcephaly should be investigated, i support the call on the commission to explain what is the current state of this outbreak of the disease and the incidence of microcephaly in the eu. i strongly believe citizens should be aware of the degree of risk of transmission of the zika virus infection in the eu. moreover, the commission should inform us if they have already considered advising eu health authorities to collaborate with the transport sector to ensure disinfection of cargo, cargo carriers and cabin and passenger compartments of planes arriving from affected areas.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus has become a global health problem. the spread of the zika virus epidemic in central and south america is likely to continue. in a globalised world, plagues can travel fast, as we have seen with bird flu and swine flu and we must be prepared for an outbreak in europe.
in writing. ‒ an evolving outbreak of zika virus infections is currently spreading in the americas and the pacific region. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that stresses the need for a treatment or vaccine for the zika virus according to the ecdc. the european centre for disease prevention and control was established in 2005 and is the eu agency that strengthens europe’s defences against infectious diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i find the information on the links between zika virus infections and microcephaly cases worrying and alarming. the lack of clear information on the effects of this virus on infants, as well as the lack of certainty on the transmission mechanisms of this virus, requires greater involvement of the eu and the international community in the investigation of these cases. in this respect, the eu's €10 million for zika research, while not a large enough sum in comparison to its implications for human health, is a first step towards finding a vaccine or a way to fight the virus.
in writing. ‒ the link between the zika virus and birth defects has now been confirmed by the us centre for disease control and prevention. zika is already a global public health emergency and there is a greatly increased risk of transmission in the eu in the coming summer months. i welcome the regular meetings of the health security committee, the activation of the eu’s early warning and response system, and the mobilisation of eu funds to support urgent research. recent reports of progress towards a vaccine are encouraging, but it is clear that multiple measures will be needed to deal with this emergency, including preventative actions and proper access to existing health services.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, the world health organisation declared the zika virus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern and it is considered a serious cross-border threat to health, having been reported in 39 countries or territories worldwide, including two european regions. the appearance of the virus has been associated with clusters of microcephaly cases and other neurological disorders, including cases of guillain-barré syndrome, and who declared that a causal relationship between zika infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected. although no cases of autochthonous zika virus transmission have been reported on the european continent, there is a risk of establishment of local vector-borne transmission in europe during the 2016 summer season and there is no specific treatment or vaccine currently available. i agree that there is an urgent need to raise awareness of the effects of the virus, to adopt measures in order to eradicate all vectors of transmission and to assist regions that have already been affected by the zika virus. furthermore, we need to avoid transmission of the virus on the european continent and to increase our research funding in order to find solutions to eradicate this health-threatening virus. due to all these factors, i support the proposed resolution.
in writing. ‒ member states must be based on values such as democracy, the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. equality, respect for minorities, tolerance, solidarity are common values shared by the member states. the constitutional tribunal has been established by the constitution of the republic of poland, which was approved by the constitutional tribunal on 1 january 2014. the actions of the polish government towards the constitutional tribunal represent a risk to constitutional democracy, as the polish government needs to implement the recommendations developed by the european institutions and meet international requirements. the values of democracy and the rule of law must prevail in each member state, and if not, immediate measures must be taken to remedy situations which are contrary to the principles on which the union is founded, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in poland.
in writing. ‒ i consider it important that, in the context of fundamental european values, all member states fully respect the rights of the european union in their legislative practices, by respecting democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the situation in poland is very worrying. poland’s new ruling party ‘law and justice’ is taking actions which question whether democracy and the rule of law in that member state are upheld. it is reported that the government is trying to curb the power of the constitutional tribunal by packing the court with judges of its choosing in breach of the constitution, and altering the court’s procedures. in addition, poland’s government is proposing a hurriedly reformed process of choosing the management of the public broadcaster, which is anticipated to be the first move in a longer-term plan to exert undue influence over polish media. furthermore, the decision of the polish president to pardon a government minister who had been convicted of abuse of power, before a court could rule on an appeal, can be considered as putting at risk the independence of the judiciary. defending the values enshrined in article 2 of the teu has to be our priority. i am not in favour of politics which go against the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted this motion for a resolution regarding poland’s respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms and underlining areas that need improvement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the motion for a resolution on the situation in poland because i believe that this document comes at an inappropriate time. given that the situation in poland is still being analysed at the level of the european commission and that the polish authorities have agreed to cooperate in clarifying the criticisms raised, the text of this resolution is inappropriate in the context of the desire for constructive communication with a member state, a state with full rights and the ability to manage its own internal policy. i shall await the conclusions of the interinstitutional dialogue, the solutions that will be reached, so that i can express myself firmly on this subject.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland, such as the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal and the fact that the tribunal’s verdict of 9 march 2016 remains unpublished and therefore cannot enter into force, undermines democracy, human rights and the rule of law. although the constitutional tribunal was established as one of the central elements ensuring checks and balances in constitutional democracy and the rule of law in poland, the venice commission clearly stated that, in the current situation, the constitutional tribunal cannot fulfil its role as guarantor of the supremacy of the constitution of poland. furthermore, aside from the constitutional issues, there are other issues of serious concern in poland, such as media freedom. the european parliament resolution urges the polish government to respect, publish and fully implement without further delay the constitutional tribunal’s judgment of 9 march 2016 and to implement the judgments of 3 and 9 december 2015, calls on the polish government to fully implement the recommendations of the venice commission and urges future solutions to strengthen democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i support parliament’s resolution.
in writing. the directive on the use of passenger name records (pnr) in the eu for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious transnational crime requires airlines to provide law enforcement authorities with passenger data for flights to and from third countries. it's a big legislative step forward that has been waiting for more than 5 years to be adopted because of the lack of consensus on how to process personal data. i think the pnr is a good legislative tool, but it is not enough. security measures on the ground, prior to the transfer of pnr data to the competent authorities, is paramount. the exchange of such data between member states, as well as between member states and europol, should take place through an eu secure system managed by europol. unfortunately, europol's responsibility is limited and europol's involvement is voluntary, not mandatory in this directive. a single point of contact would also be needed to be responsible for the storage, management and access to pnr data and for the recording and transmission of requests for information exchange. the existence of this counter, as proposed by this directive, is again optional.
we are dealing with well-funded, well-organized international terrorist groups determined to do harm to the extreme. let's not wait until we're hit again. europe needs more than ever to be united and to use any means against jihadist terror. that does not mean violating human rights, but on the contrary, preserving them against those who would destroy them. the directive on the transmission of passenger data by airlines requires airlines to transmit the name, ticket number or payment method of passengers entering or leaving the european union. and that includes european citizens. that's because it's urgently necessary that we identify the european citizens who are going to fight alongside the jihadists. no one is saying that this law is a silver bullet that will succeed on its own in ending terrorism in europe, but together with other measures, we must succeed. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. of course, member states are not equal in the way they protect the eu's borders, nor in the level of crime, including, as you said, the possible sale of citizens. and these are all goals that we have to defeat and fight for, to make disappear from our reality. because all of them, together with the others, planned and prepared by the terrorists, lead us to what happened, to the loss of human life.
madam president, i would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on this report, but at the same time i cannot help but regret the unacceptable delay in its discussion. recent events in brussels and paris, but not only, have shown that the peace and security of the european citizen is more fragile than ever before in the face of terrorism and cross-border crime, which have become increasingly aggressive and sophisticated. the attacks have brought us face to face with a reality we've refused to see for too long. the enemy is inside the city, and unfortunately, we lack the tools to prevent tragedies like london, madrid, paris or brussels. the use of passenger name record data will allow not only reactive but also preventive intervention, which will increase the capacity of nation states to disrupt terrorist networks and prevent serious or organised crime. however, i would draw the attention of all those responsible to the fact that the adoption of this directive is only a small step in the fight against terrorism and in strengthening the process of ensuring the security of citizens. beyond the efforts made at european union level, the national states that have to implement this legislation are responsible for its effectiveness.
madam president, even if we concede that the european passenger name record would not have prevented the deadly brussels attack last month, there are strong arguments that showed that it could be one of the most effective instruments in our european security toolbox for averting the next attack in the future. the experience of the countries that use pnr data in the fight against drug and human trafficking and terrorism long ago demonstrated the advantages of proactive and real-time use of this instrument. this makes it all the more difficult to understand why this house has taken so long to vote on this directive. although praising the way in which usefulness, proportionality and data protection concerns are reflected in the final text, i can only regret that the directive we vote on tomorrow does not include intra-eu flights, given the increased level of efficiency and security such a comprehensive approach would have had.
in writing. in the current volatile european security environment, the report on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data is absolutely necessary, as its central objective is to establish a mechanism to improve the security of eu citizens and member states. the report, which is a significant step forward in the fight against terrorism in europe, establishes a legal framework for the protection and exchange of passenger name record data between member states and the services responsible. such data may only be used for the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and certain types of serious transnational crime and for the investigation and prosecution of such offences. this list of crimes includes: terrorism, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, trafficking in drugs, weapons, ammunition and explosives, money laundering and cybercrime. to this end, the report provides for the transfer by air carriers and non-air carrier economic operators (such as travel agencies and organisations) of data from passenger files on international flights to or from member states, and the exchange of such data between those member states and member states and europol.
madam president, i will start by thanking kati piri for such a comprehensive and very well-organised report. i will just emphasise some of the most important points in my view. i will start by saying that today we shall assess the stalemate on turkish accession to the eu, which unfortunately has also contributed to the slowdown in the pace of the reforms and progress on the rule of law and fundamental rights in turkey. i am deeply worried about the serious deterioration in freedom of speech, expression and opinion in the country in the last two years. therefore, i strongly encourage, yet again, the council and the commission to open chapters 23 and 24. simultaneously, i urge turkey to continue the reform process to resolve outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbours and to play a constructive role in the cyprus negotiations. the success of these negotiations is important for the eu and, i believe, also for turkey. second, there is no doubt about the necessity of deepening our cooperation with turkey in order to solve the current refugee and migration crisis. this being said, i have an important concern about certain aspects of the latest eu—turkey deal. last, but not least, i would like to express my condolences and support to all turkish people and the authorities in fighting terrorism. for some of my colleagues, i will remind them of the wisdom of my people: god give me the words to hide my intention.
mr president, before being a candidate to join the european union, turkey is a strategic partner with whom we have to work together on many current issues, such as the refugee crisis and the fight against terrorists. i welcome the recent agreement between the eu and turkey on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. but at the same time i want to stress that turkey’s accession to the eu is essentially connected to the copenhagen criteria. therefore turkey has to make further progress towards the necessary reforms in order to ensure respect for the principle of the separation of powers and human rights protection, especially freedom of expression, the rights of minorities and freedom of religion. having said this, we need to see a real commitment by turkey in this process of accession to the eu, fully respecting the eu’s values and standards, and also to make sincere efforts to find a solution to the cyprus problem.
madam president, as chair of the eu-albania stabilisation and association parliamentary committee, i insist on a regular political dialogue between the two sides and also insist on the adoption of recommendations when we have these meetings, because they should not be impeded, because they are beneficial to the albanian people. secondly, i welcome albania's progress in the five key areas and hope that the pace of reform will remain unchanged, even accelerate, precisely so that accession talks with albania can begin. judicial system: we still have deficiencies, the constitution is about to be changed in terms of justice and the most important thing is that the laws are applied correctly, judicial practice is uniform and the judicial system needs to be cleaned of corrupt and incompetent judges and prosecutors. as regards corruption and organised crime, they are widespread, anti-corruption and anti-organised crime strategies have been adopted, but the number of convictions remains very low. we cannot make reforms on paper only, they must have a practical result.
madam president, i believe the report and discussions this afternoon send a clear signal to both tirana and brussels. albania has made remarkable progress in the past 12 months on the key priorities required for the opening of accession negotiations. this is why it is crucial for this house to acknowledge the reform efforts and ambitions of the authorities and to encourage the european aspirations of the albanian people. i feel this was the spirit of the visit of the high representative in march, and it is very much the message the rapporteur is conveying with this year’s report. now it is vital to keep the current momentum for reforms and to build on the achievement thus far. bold implementation will be key to delivering on the ground, with far-reaching policies providing for effective, transparent and accountable institutions as well as higher living standards for the benefit of all albanian citizens.
blue-card question.– do you not think that we should have to ask the albanian government and also the european commission to clarify albania’s position on kosovo? i have recently heard lots of things about a common economic space encompassing albania and kosovo, the albanian regional market and so on. and secondly, as regards the national minorities: they never mention the vlachs, the romanians living in albania.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes the resolution on albania. i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, and all the others who actively contributed to the discussion in the past few months. the commission takes note of this resolution and will continue to rely on the views expressed by parliament in its upcoming engagement with albania. since candidate status was granted, albania has consistently made steady progress on the five key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations. we share the assessment that the upcoming months will be crucial to consolidate all that has been achieved to date and that all necessary efforts should be made to pursue outstanding reform processes. challenges related to the entrenchment of the rule of law will continue to receive specific attention. the observations in the resolution provide good guidance in this specific regard. to conclude, i would like to reiterate that the commission will continue to intensify its support, monitoring and assessment of the results that albania achieves on the reform agenda. concrete results will bring the country closer to the european union. but, most importantly, concrete results are needed to guarantee that all the citizens throughout the country can rely on a functioning democratic state that successfully provides welfare, security and opportunities. this is the most important perspective, i believe, and i hope that all political actors in albania will genuinely work with this very same objective in mind. once again, i think albania is on a good path, but now it needs the cooperation of all political parties in the country. the main focus now should be on the reform of the judicial system, which is a very comprehensive and decisive step by albania towards the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me express my sincere gratitude for the excellent work by parliament’s rapporteur on albania, mr fleckenstein. albania has, as you mentioned, taken many steps in the right direction. for the political leaders it is now important to overcome internal difficulties and continue on this path. decisive action is now needed to meet the five key priorities, in particular to adopt the wide-ranging justice reform, and the eu, for its part, stands ready to deliver in good faith. madam president, a final point, which was raised by mr mcallister. the arrival of many albanians in a number of eu member states, including germany and, moreover, the netherlands, is another matter of great concern to us, to which i would briefly draw the commissioner’s attention to make sure that we can discuss it later on.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by saying that it is a positive sign that bosnia and herzegovina is back on the reform path necessary to move forward in its eu integration process. and let me mention the adoption of the reform agenda and its accompanying action plan last year in particular. the council has reinforced bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective in its conclusions of december 2015. at the same time, it has underlined that meaningful progress in the implementation of the reform agenda is necessary for the eu to consider a membership application. i would therefore like to encourage the authorities to continue the necessary reforms and to consolidate progress – in particular in the area of the rule of law, including the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of public administration and socio-economic reforms. the functionality of bosnia and herzegovina’s institutions remains a priority. moreover, a functioning coordination mechanism on eu matters will be essential for the country to be able to face the challenges ahead on its eu path. the adaptation of the stabilisation and association agreement following the accession of croatia will allow bosnia and herzegovina to normalise its trade relations with the union. it is, moreover, an important element of the country’s commitment to the eu integration process. let me commend in this respect the ongoing progress in the current negotiations. the council will refer to bosnia and herzegovina’s eu membership application in due course. first of all, bosnia and herzegovina will need to deliver concrete and irreversible results in the reform process. when requesting the commission’s opinion on the membership application, the council will ask the commission to pay particular attention to the implementation of the sejdić—finci ruling of the european court of human rights. i would also like to reiterate the council’s serious concern about preparations for holding an entity—level referendum on the state—level judiciary in republika srpska. such a referendum would challenge the cohesion, sovereignty and territorial integrity of bosnia and herzegovina. outstanding shortcomings in the country’s judiciary should be addressed with the structured dialogue on justice. we expect the authorities at all levels to ensure that the challenges the country faces are addressed constructively, in a spirit of dialogue and mutual understanding. it is now central for bosnia and herzegovina to seize the momentum gained so far and to keep working hard. obviously, we stand ready to support it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, cristian preda, for the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina. we welcome the text, which is balanced and largely in line with the commission’s november 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. it reflects well the state of play in that country, notably when it comes to being back on the reform track and starting to address the outstanding issues on its european union integration path. i welcome the support this resolution provides for the renewed eu approach towards bosnia and herzegovina, in particular the focus on socio-economic rule of law and public administration reforms, as adopted by bosnia and herzegovina under the july 2015 reform agenda. in addition, i welcome parliament’s call for bosnia and herzegovina to ensure that it has an effective coordination mechanism on union matters in place as well as to adapt the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) following the accession of croatia to the european union. the commission is fully dedicated to advancing bosnia and herzegovina’s european union perspective. first, the saa which entered into force in june 2015 is a springboard for deep reforms in that country. in this context, in december 2015 we successfully held saa council and saa committee meetings. in cooperation with international financial institutions we are closely following the implementation of the comprehensive reform agenda, which once again started in july 2015. this has resulted in the adoption of a number of key pieces of legislation and strategies and implementation has already started. i expect bosnia and herzegovina to further implement the reform agenda, not only as a key condition for the country on its path to the union but also in the best interests of its citizens. this includes the dissemination of the 2013 population census results. together with the high representative, vice-president mogherini, we have taken note of bosnia and herzegovina’s application for european union membership submitted to the european council presidency in february. this is a renewed commitment from this country to decisively advance towards the european union, deliver on the necessary reforms and meet its citizens’ aspirations for a more prosperous future. the country is also participating in the connectivity agenda and i would expect it to be a closer partner when discussing measures for youth, particularly against the backdrop of massive youth employment – and we are talking here about a youth unemployment rate of 55%. to conclude, i would like to stress that i witnessed a positive dynamic during my latest visit to sarajevo two weeks ago. the european union initiative was launched in december 2014. this initiative has shown that bosnia and herzegovina can deliver. at the same time, outstanding challenges remain and need to be seriously addressed, including through the further implementation of the reform agenda. this will require the eu to remain fully engaged in bosnia and herzegovina and to support the country in delivering on its priorities in close cooperation with international and local stakeholders such as the international financial institutions and civil society organisations.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the energy you have invested in the dossier on bosnia and herzegovina. since the beginning of your term, this country has been on a positive trajectory. the report you presented in november 2015 is also better than before and proves that the new european approach is working very well. but the most important proof of progress is the submission by bosnia-herzegovina of its application for membership on 15 february, an act which was impossible a year ago and which was not foreseen by the dutch presidency. it should be noted that the commission did not mention enlargement in its programme for the first half of 2016. besides, she doesn't seem to be interested in the subject. we have reached a very broad consensus in the committee on foreign affairs on the need to support that country. we welcome the submission of the application for membership and ask the council to examine it as soon as possible and to forward it to the commission promptly so that it can begin preparing the opinion. to make this possible, bosnia-herzegovina must make the coordination mechanism on european affairs operational and adapt the association and stabilisation agreement, as you also indicated, commissioner, during your last visit to sarajevo. we also call on the authorities to continue on the path of reforms for the benefit of the citizens, in terms of the economic situation, but also to pursue political reforms. the fight against corruption, the independence of the judiciary, the reform of public administration, the fight against terrorism, respect for freedom of expression and the media must be given priority. 2016 is an election year in bosnia, but i urge the authorities to remain focused on the goal of european integration and to act decisively to ensure that the date they have mentioned, namely 2017, for obtaining candidate status, is respected. as regards the dutch presidency, i think that working faster on the bosnian candidacy would be an excellent response to the referendum you suffered a week ago. that would be a genuine european response, instead of retreating and being soft and timid in the face of our adversaries. do something for bosnia, and you will gain support for a european netherlands and a united europe.
madam president, the protection of know-how and confidential commercial information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure is a priority for us in the european parliament. uniform legislation at european level allows us to protect our competitive advantage and maintain our innovation performance. in this respect, particular attention has been paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which face the greatest difficulty in protecting their intellectual property. small entrepreneurs and innovators, for example in romania, especially in the digital sector, have often been subject to theft of confidential information, which has affected their potential and hard work. the same happened to companies in the 1990s, which lost their competitiveness due to a lack of protection against theft and illegal disclosure of confidential information. that is why i believe that the report is a balanced formula for protecting them at european level, without, however, hindering the dissemination of knowledge or the mobility of the workforce.
madam president, the report on the estimate of the revenue and expenditure budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 reflects a balanced approach to the funds needed for the functioning of the european legislator. important measures are proposed to increase the efficiency of parliament, but also to increase transparency. the publication of the detailed budget on parliament's website is thus a sign of our desire to enable all citizens to better understand our activities and priorities. a strong democracy requires a strong parliament, with increased activity, that communicates with citizens wherever they are. the european parliament must be known not only in brussels or strasbourg but also in the remotest localities. i must therefore reject any wish by some to maintain or impose new differences between the member states and their meps. i therefore reject the limitations imposed on eastern european staff, which are imposed on the simple grounds that if the area is less developed, employees from those countries must be paid less.
smes are the backbone of the european economy. supporting them need not be just a slogan. the main difficulty faced by new and young entrepreneurs is access to finance. i know this because i was a young entrepreneur myself in the past. what bank is funding a young, inexperienced entrepreneur? how do you go public without expertise? how do you access other markets when certain countries offer tax breaks to big companies? how, in practice, can one be confident of opening a company in europe today? it is important to establish a european-wide strategy to facilitate access to finance for smes. the sme risk factor is a good first step, but it is not enough. europe and the member states must support the provision of finance for smes as well as for start-ups. for example, the european fund for strategic investments provided for the allocation of sme funding, but unfortunately we are far from the €75 billion promised to smes under this plan and we have no solutions. europe must come up with concrete measures, beyond this proposal, which we have discussed today.
mr president, quality of life must be a primary concern for all those who make public policy at national and european level. the fight against poverty, against regional disparities, has been a concern of the commission and the council, but unfortunately the results are not what the citizens expect. the european funds dedicated to fighting poverty have not achieved their goal as long as the 2020 targets cannot be reached. i asked president juncker to make the european fund for strategic investments geographically inclusive, not just first come, first served. the eu treaty clearly sets out the objectives of eliminating regional disparities and social cohesion. without large investments in poor areas, we cannot achieve social cohesion. citizens, especially those in eastern europe, need higher wage incomes and this can only be achieved with well-paid jobs. we also have to think about big welfare benefits for people with disabilities. it is a mistake to concentrate european funds only in rich areas, because this will increase social exclusion. the commission says it has put social equity at the centre, but beyond statements we need a concrete plan of action. primary needs are not yet met. this is what the citizens expect.
in writing. in the current economic and financial crisis, there are many families across the european union who are having difficulty finding decent housing or keeping their homes. it is important that the fundamental right of all european citizens to have access to decent housing as a precondition of human dignity is respected. as such, i believe that there should be as close cooperation as possible between the commission and the member states to enable european citizens to rent housing at affordable prices, especially for people with low incomes. the social housing scheme for such persons should allow for a sufficient number of affordable housing units, and adequate social protection is essential to achieve the objective of reducing social exclusion, participation in society and greater equality of opportunity. on the other hand, europe needs adequate long-term housing and community policies on the existence of a quality housing system, coupled with reasonable rental policies when urgent social measures are needed.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur. i believe and i argue that the private sector is the only solution to combat poverty. the sustainable development goals - sure, there are 17, the rapporteur said - but we have to see the results. smes in europe are still fragile, undercapitalised and lacking the power to innovate and re-technologise. the funding gap can be compensated by lowering the tax burden and eliminating tax fraud - see what's happening with the panama phenomenon. why couldn't fraud be eliminated and tax pressure reduced? public-private partnerships are extremely important for the private sector. it creates value and jobs. poverty is directly linked to the development of the private sector. member states and the commission need to understand that supporting the private sector is not about putting money in the pockets of individuals, but about the economic development of each member state.
in writing.– the private sector plays a crucial role in development. i believe that the private sector’s central focus in development should regard poverty reduction and diminishing income inequality. however, there are other areas in which the private sector’s expertise and effectiveness are needed, such as climate change.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, the attack in lahore on 27 march, the day when most christians were celebrating easter, was a horror. the main target was, of course, the christian community. however, the victims belong to different religious communities in pakistan. religious extremism affects all pakistanis equally in this way. that's why i believe that the fight that the government of pakistan is fighting against terrorism must be accompanied by a fight against religious extremism. as the recent attack shows, pakistan needs to learn a lesson in tolerance towards minorities. all the more so as freedom of thought, conscience and religion is enshrined in the constitution of pakistan. but it contradicts the so-called blasphemy law, under which asia bibi was also convicted. our political group demands the release of asia bibi.
blue-card question.– madam president, besides the terrorist attacks in pakistan, lots of people are leaving pakistan; lots of migrants are coming to europe from pakistan besides syrians, afghans, and iraqis. do you not think that we should call on the commission to enter into negotiations with the pakistani government in order to enable people to stay in their own country? the number of refugees and migrants from pakistan is increasing daily.
madam president, while the violence perpetrated by boko haram jihadist militants in nigeria gained widespread international attention, the conflict in the north—east of nigeria, over the control of land between the semi-nomadic fulani herders and the non-muslim farmers of north-eastern nigeria, has best passed largely unnoticed for years. this is despite the fact that the violence by fulani herders has increased exponentially, involving attacks against christians, their farms, shops and homes. only two months after president buhari’s inauguration in may 2015, the actions of armed fulani herdsmen led to the loss of around 500 lives in central nigeria, according to christian solidarity worldwide. despite advances in security since mr buhari’s election, there is still much to be done to address this violence in the region and the sense of impunity surrounding it, so that justice and lasting peace is restored between conflicting communities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation, since the adequacy of the level of protection afforded by a third country shall be assessed in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a data transfer operation. the member states and the commission shall inform each other of cases where they consider that a third country does not ensure an adequate level of protection. given the many protection clauses to individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the data protection package provides individuals with information on how their personal data is processed, it requires consent before personal data is used, it makes it easier for people to transfer their personal data between service providers and it provides individuals with the right to know when their personal data has been hacked. furthermore, it is beneficial to businesses, as it sets a single set of rules across europe, with one supervisory authority. this directive is in the interest of the consumer, who is granted a higher amount of control over his/her personal data. greater consumer transparency and choice leads to more trustful, consumer-friendly and secure products and services. having considered the benefits of the new rules, i support the data protection package.
in writing. ‒ there is a growing need for law enforcement authorities in member states to process and exchange at rapidly increasing rates for the purposes of preventing and combating transnational crime and terrorism. in this context, clear and consistent rules on data protection at eu level will help fostering co-operation between such authorities. in addition, there are practical challenges to enforcing data protection legislation and a need for cooperation between member states and their authorities, which need to be organised at eu level to ensure unity of application of european union law. in certain situations, the eu is best placed to ensure effectively and consistently the same level of protection for individuals when their personal data are transferred to third countries. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the police directive will improve cooperation and efficiency between police forces of all member states and will make for smoother exchange of information between member states’ police and judicial authorities, which is crucial in the current security context. the directive is about ensuring the correct and lawful treatment of personal data in the law enforcement context, while respecting the fundamental right of privacy for citizens. as we do not have a common european union framework on data protection or data processing for the police, i strongly support this directive.
in writing. ‒ security and protection of life is a decision-making factor in the suppression of terrorist offences and serious transnational crime. the processing of personal data shall be necessary and applicable at operational level. i voted for the collection of such data by air carriers and the transfer of this data to a single designated unit. the introduction of an eu-wide pnr system is necessitated by the current situation of acts of terrorism and violence and can lead to the ensuring of international security.
in writing. ‒ i expressed my support for the pnr (passenger name record) directive and the data protection package. it is clear that we do not have enough information on terror suspects and the little we do have is not being used or shared effectively by national law enforcement agencies. the data protection package and pnr will establish a clear legal framework for how personal data can be used and shared. this will make it significantly easier for national law enforcement agencies to share information quickly and effectively. these measures are fundamental for the fight against terrorism. the pnr directive can be a useful tool in the fight against terror if the data collected is used and shared effectively by law enforcement agencies. i expect national governments to make use of existing eu measures to fight terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i believe that passenger name record data is crucial in order for law enforcement agencies to deal with the current terrorist challenges in europe. securing air transport is important in combating so-called ‘foreign fighters’ and disrupting terrorist networks.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission’s proposal on the use of passenger name record data (eu pnr). this complementing tool will enable law enforcement authorities to solve possible security gaps in a well-organised and competent manner. moreover, it provides a harmonised legal base to fight against cross-border organised crime and terrorist offences. on the basis of solidarity and data protection clarification, the eu pnr was aligned with the data protection package in the agenda and received a majority vote in parliament.
in writing. ‒ passenger name records (pnr) consist of the information provided by passengers to air carriers during reservation and check-in procedures. travel agencies and tour operators using charter flights will also collect and process pnr data from their passengers. i voted for this report that would oblige airline carriers to hand over their passengers’ data to eu countries in order to help the authorities to fight terrorism and serious crime.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting in favour of this report because i was not satisfied with the final form of the text. while i agree with the principle of the use of passenger name record data by authorities whose task is to prevent, detect and prosecute persons suspected of terrorism and serious crime, the fact that the amendment requiring member states to exchange such data was rejected leaves this directive without its most important component. if the authorities of the member states do not have this obligation, recent cases will be repeated where terrorists were targeted by other member states but the information was not made available to the other states precisely because there was no legal obligation to do so. in these circumstances, we risk having a directive on the processing and use of certain personal data, with a purpose that is not very clear, and with a very obvious risk of continuing to have terrorist propagation networks among us.
in writing. ‒ this directive states that airlines must submit passenger name record (pnr) data in the form of passenger names, ticket numbers or payment methods for passengers leaving and entering the european union, including european citizens. pnr data can help law enforcement authorities prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute serious transnational crime, by comparing them with various databases of persons and objects sought, to find the necessary evidence of criminal networks. this directive will help combat human trafficking and child trafficking, drug trafficking, paedophiles and murderers. furthermore, it will represent an important tool in combating and preventing terrorism, as it will put in place a coherent and harmonised framework for pnr exchange between member states. in light of the recent brussels and paris attacks, i believe that such information is crucial in order to protect the security of european citizens. in conclusion, i supported this directive.
in writing. ‒ in today's knowledge-based economy, the ability of businesses to innovate and compete can be seriously affected when confidential information is either stolen or misused. the protection of trade secrets is therefore of particular importance for smaller eu companies, whose bases are less solid than those of a large company. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (oj l 347, 20.12.2011, p. this fragmentation only hinders economic prosperity and the development of the eu's single market. last but not least, the improvements that the european parliament has managed to make to the original text provide a solid and at the same time balanced framework. support for european protection, know-how, but not at the expense of transparency, the dissemination of information and the exercise of fundamental freedoms are important elements that are reflected in the final text, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of trade secrets is a risk factor as it leads to the commission of crimes such as theft, bribery, fraud. the manufacture or placing on the market of goods infringing proprietary rights is also an unlawful use of trade secrets. i voted to protect this data, to evaluate it on the basis of its accuracy and applicability. the acquisition or use of a trade secret by a third party may have a negative impact on the legitimate holder and such a measure is in support of the avoidance of moral and financial harm.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe the trade secrets directive will be fundamental in order to offer protection to european businesses faced with economic espionage, both at eu and international level. currently, there are no europe-wide provisions and the legislation in member states varies from none to high protection of trade secrets. i welcome the fact that the directive proposes an unprecedented text on the protection of whistle-blowers, which could become a positive precedent. moreover, it excludes media freedom and freedom of expression in a very clear way from the application of the directive. finally, i welcome the fact that it secures strong guarantees on workers’ mobility, and workers’ right to information and representation, as well as safeguards for disclosure to public authorities.
in writing. ‒ the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure has been a concern of mine both when i worked in the private sector and when i was minister for smes in my country. i have made several amendments to this report and voted for it because, by adopting it, it protects labour and intellectual property, defines and clarifies what constitutes a trade secret and protects the exchange of knowledge between businesses, especially smes, research institutions, both in the internal market and outside it. the report clarifies how to award damages in case of disclosure of trade secrets by anyone who is not legally empowered and at the same time does not impede the mobility of workers. i wanted to stress the need to define in each company what trade secrets are so that workers are aware of them and to provide in individual employment contracts a confidentiality clause for all workers who have access to trade secrets through the exercise of their functions or duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that it is paramount to protect european businesses that must deal with economic espionage. also, it is important to note that the directive is compatible with the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the directive on the protection of undisclosed trade secrets because we need to ease as much as we can the burdens faced by our key industrial sectors. we have very innovative and competitive companies that should be channelling their efforts into designing and developing new products rather than wasting resources in fighting against unfair commercial practices coming from third countries.
in writing. ‒ protection against unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is key to allowing a fair commercial environment for businesses. i voted for this report that should clarify the definition of what should be considered as trade secrets.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure is beneficial to the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensuring economic growth. in this respect, today's report sets out the directives that member states must comply with in order to improve the protection of trade secrets. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal that future measures to be taken by the member states should ensure a fair balance between the protection of trade secrets and the freedom to conduct a business, between freedom of expression and freedom of information, with a focus on fundamental citizens' rights (public security, consumer protection, public health or environmental protection). i also welcome this directive as the legislative text aims to avoid affecting the freedom of movement of workers and the freedom of establishment, two fundamental european rights.
in writing. ‒ the trade secret debate highlights the need for, but also the fragility of, a balance between measures to maintain european competitiveness and the protection of fundamental rights. we cannot talk about economic performance without freedom of the press and without protecting those who report wrongdoing. that said, i am pleased to see that the political groups have succeeded in summarising these needs in a text that lays the foundations for a clear and fair european system. article 1 on scope and article 5 on exceptions are a step forward for business actors and a win for european citizens. although we do not yet have regulations at european level and the legislation in the member states varies greatly, the current text of the directive sets a positive precedent in trade secret law.
in writing. ‒ the priority objectives of the european parliament's budget for 2017 should be to strengthen cybersecurity and safety, to make expenditure more efficient, to increase the transparency of the institution's work and its attractiveness to the public, and to facilitate the work of members in the performance of their mandate. the recent attacks in brussels have raised a serious alarm about the safety of staff and buildings belonging to the european parliament. strict security measures and an effective control system can prevent possible tragedies. initiatives to replace paper with digital means, simplify working methods and reduce the number of working languages would significantly contribute to reducing costs and improving the efficiency of activities. support to members should include support measures tailored to the specific requirements of their work. i regret that sometimes the solutions proposed take less account of cost-effectiveness and that the suggestions of members of parliament are not implemented. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that safety, efficiency and transparency are the priorities of the budget allocated to the european parliament in 2017.
in writing. ‒ in view of the slowdown in economic growth faced by member states, the main benchmark is no longer the forecast inflation rate for 2017. i voted for transparency in the budget by publishing it on parliament's website in a detailed and easy-to-use way for all citizens. in view of recent events, updating the concept of global security is a priority.
in writing. ‒ during the past legislature, parliament agreed on a number of political priorities, which gave rise either to moderate budgetary increases or to budgetary savings. for 2016, priority should be given to the reinforcement of parliamentary work, in particular by enhancing parliament’s legislative work as well as its capacity to scrutinise the executive, and the reinforcement of parliament’s security of buildings and cybersecurity. in order to support the structural and organisational reforms aimed at achieving greater efficiency, environmental sustainability, and effectiveness, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed during the previous legislative procedure the regulation on benchmarks, but due to the fact that the procedure was not finalised, it had to be started again from scratch with a new negotiating team. i have voted against this report on estimates of revenue and expenditure for the next financial year.
in writing. ‒ i believe active and credible negotiations provide a suitable framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-tr relations and i hope that the opening of chapters will lead to concrete progress. turkey should act against intimidation of journalists in all its forms, condemn the violent and illegal take-over of several newspapers and stop serious backsliding, as over the past two years, on freedom of speech, expression and opinion, both on-line and off-line. i support the call for an immediate ceasefire in south—east turkey and the resumption of the peace process, and urge the turkish government to shoulder its responsibility to resume negotiations for a negotiated, comprehensive and sustainable solution to the kurdish issue. the kurdistan workers’ party (pkk), should lay down its arms, abandon terrorist tactics and use peaceful and legal means to voice its expectations. eu-turkey cooperation on migration should be uncoupled from the eu accession negotiating process. turkey is hosting the largest refugee population in the world, and is a key strategic partner for the eu, but we must have a more structured and frequent political dialogue on key thematic issues.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu should praise turkey for hosting such a tremendous amount of refugees. turkey has become the largest refugee host in the world. as such, the eu should provide a significant economic package in order to take some of the strain off the turkish economy. however, i firmly believe that eu-turkey cooperation on migration should not be tied to turkey’s eu accession negotiating process.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on turkey following the conclusion drawn by my political group after a debate in which two big questions were raised regarding the good implementation and monitoring of the use of the money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must continue, in the current political context, to support its external partners with whom it shares the same priorities: ensuring peace, democracy, security and prosperity. in this respect, today's report presents the state of relations, the progress and setbacks of turkey's efforts to join the european union. it is right that turkey's economic development, good cooperation and commitment to the fight against terrorism, but also to the hosting of migrants, with turkey being the country with the largest number of refugees, are highlighted.
in writing. ‒ while recognizing turkey’s enormous humanitarian contribution in hosting the largest refugee population in the world and its vital role in countering daesh and ending hostilities in syria, i remain very concerned about the recent backsliding of the country in its respect for democracy and the rule of law. my greatest concern is the disproportionate response of the turkish authorities to internal terrorism that recently led to the death of hundreds of civilians and the destruction of entire towns in the south—east of the country, a situation from which all sides can only lose. another grave worry is the serious regression over the past years in freedom of speech, the lack of a free press and the imprisonment of the highest number of journalists in the world, a situation which also branches out to europe with the recent attempt of president erdogan to silence critical voices in german media. i hope that, despite our interests related to the vital strategic partnership between the eu and turkey, we can stay critical of these worrying developments and address them properly for the benefit of all turkish citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is very important to understand the importance of eu relations with turkey and to implement more measures which will lead to concrete progress. this report urges turkey to act against intimidation of journalists and condemn the violent takeover of several newspapers. the european union strongly supports the freedom of speech, expression and opinion, both online and offline. to match the eu’s commitment to the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, which are core european values, reforms of the judiciary, freedom and security are urgently needed in turkey. regarding eu-turkey cooperation on migration, i think this should be uncoupled from the eu accession negotiating process. the active and credible negotiations provide a suitable framework for exploiting the full potential of international relations. turkey remains a key partner for the eu, but needs strong progress on rule of law and fundamental values. for this reason i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2015 report on albania, as i appreciate that important progress has been made in albania's path towards accession to the european union. since june 2014, it has been granted eu candidate status in order to encourage the progress made by this balkan state in the fight against corruption and organised crime. unfortunately, without democratic structures, without the rule of law, without the independence of the media and the judiciary, but also without a consistent fight against corruption, eu accession cannot take place. thus, a greater intensification of reform efforts in these key areas is needed in order to open accession negotiations and strengthen its democratic transition.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the steady progress in meeting the key priorities for opening accession negotiations and i support the call on all political parties to work constructively together for the implementation of the reforms. further efforts are needed, in particular in the field of judicial reform. the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment. to secure the sustainability of the integration process all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together. i support the call on the commission to monitor closely the progress and to report to parliament and the council as soon as albania has sufficiently advanced with the judicial reform, with a view to opening accession negotiations. i believe that the opening of accession negotiations, as soon as possible, will provide a tangible incentive for the positive transformation of the country.
in writing. ‒ albania has made significant progress with regard to its european integration process. however, the country still has important reforms to make in the judicial field. i look forward to albania’s on-going progress with a view to opening eu accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on albania that monitors the steady progress made by albania with respect to the key priority reforms required for opening accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this resolution as it remains crucial to stability and prosperity in europe that the eu continues to support the western balkans and albania’s democratic transition towards eu membership by holding candidate and potential candidate countries to account for their reform progress or lack thereof. this resolution sets out those specific areas in which albania still has a lot of work to do in order to meet the requirements of the eu enlargement policy. the lack of independence of the judiciary from political branches, high unemployment rates, a flawed child protection system, excessive corruption particularly in education, healthcare and the judiciary, and socio-economic discrimination against roma and egyptian minorities, are particularly concerning in this regard. however, the resolution also stresses positive developments as evident in the strategy and law on decentralisation of governance to local governments, the spread and consolidation of religious tolerance and the willingness of the parliament to cooperate with civil society organisations.
in writing. ‒ considering albania’s achievements in its european integration process, we should positively encourage its steady progress in 2015 in meeting the key priorities for opening accession negotiations. i think the european parliament should call on all political parties to work constructively together for the implementation of the reforms. this resolution urges the albanian government to keep up the reform efforts and supports the country’s european perspective. the rapporteur believes that the opening of accession negotiations will provide an incentive for the positive transformation of the country. further efforts are needed, in particular, in the field of judicial reform. also, the commission needs to monitor progress closely and to report to parliament and the council as soon as albania has sufficiently advanced with the necessary reforms, with a view to opening accession negotiations. i fully support this approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina, taking into account both the progress made by this country and the steps it needs to take to become an eu member state. the european union has initiated a renewed approach to bosnia and herzegovina, in order to make progress towards eu accession, but also to address socioeconomic and rule of law issues. to this end, the european commission will allocate €1.5 billion over the next three years to support reforms in bosnia and herzegovina and infrastructure development. unfortunately, however, this country faces challenges in terms of human rights and the protection of minorities. the legal and institutional framework for human rights monitoring requires substantial improvements and appropriate legislation to be effectively implemented.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the presentation of an eu membership application by bosnia and herzegovina. after a long period of stalemate, there is some positive progress and i therefore encourage the country and its political leadership to intensify the reform efforts with a view to making the state more efficiently functional on its way towards the eu. the eu has to be unequivocally committed to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, stressing the need for the country to implement the stabilisation and association agreement to make the eu membership application a success. the eu membership application of bosnia and herzegovina presents a unique opportunity for the country to unify around a common goal. the political leaders of the country need to work together constructively to respond to and fulfil the european aspirations of all bosnia and herzegovina citizens.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on its progress in the last year. i hope this positive effort will continue with the country’s eu membership application.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on bosnia and herzegovina that reiterates the need for the authorities to show determination in pursuing institutional and socio-economic reforms with their effective implementation, thus taking steady steps towards an eu integration.
in writing. ‒ the membership application submitted by bosnia and herzegovina in february this year shows that the country is taking important steps towards gaining eu membership. however, for bosnia and herzegovina to integrate into the european community as a democratic and functional state, further constitutional, political and legal reform is much needed. the resolution stresses, amongst other things, that corruption, growing radicalisation amongst youth and the decreasing space of independent media are of particular concern. it further highlights that there are still structural problems causing societal division and preventing integration, the ‘two schools under one roof’ being an example hereof. therefore, it is as important as ever that the eu continues to encourage reform in bosnia and herzegovina, which is essential for fostering societal and political stability in the western balkans region. it is for these reasons that i support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution notes some positive progress and encourages bosnia and herzegovina and its political leadership to intensify the reform efforts with a view to making the state more efficiently functional on its way towards the eu. the european parliament welcomes the presentation of an eu membership application by bosnia and herzegovina, which presents a unique opportunity for the country to unify around a common goal. this is the beginning of an important process that will require commitment and enhanced reform efforts. the political leaders of the country need to work together constructively to respond to and fulfil the eu aspirations of all bosnia and herzegovina citizens. the eu strategy, and especially this resolution, presents a unique opportunity for the politicians and all citizens of the country to leave aside the divisions along national lines and work together for a common future within the eu. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the recent economic stagnation and decline in the competitiveness of national economies has meant a sharp decline in consumption and a visible increase in spending, which has implicitly led to an increase in the level of poverty. although the global economy is in the process of recovering from the financial crisis, the imf's economic growth forecasts for 2016 remain cautious, with an annual rate of only 3,4%. the global economy has been experiencing very low growth for a long time and international trade is facing numerous obstacles due to delays in finalising international trade agreements. the fight against poverty at eu level needs to have the strong support of all member states so that by implementing coordinated measures a minimum income above the poverty line can be established to counteract the negative effects in the long term. i believe that we must give high priority to the circumstantial problems that lead to the increase in poverty and, by implication, social exclusion. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that by taking firm and immediate action we can make a concrete contribution to combating poverty.
in writing. ‒ today, poverty is the unfortunate reality in which millions of children in european societies live, thus damaging their future chances. the economic and financial crisis that started in 2008 has affected children and families across europe, with impacts on employment and social assistance systems. increasing expenditure on housing, food, utilities, transport, healthcare or education-related expenditure further complicates the situation of families, which, due to the decline in living standards, find it increasingly difficult to cope. achieving the eu poverty reduction target will require a cumulation of all efforts and instruments at both eu and national level. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, member states and the union have committed to reduce the level of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million people over the next decade. in this respect, i believe that identifying poverty indicators can help to develop complementary national targets on social exclusion for all 28 member states. a high quality of life for the population should be the aim of social development efforts and should be the measure of social progress.
in writing. ‒ since the start of the crisis, inequality in the eu has worsened, with one in six european citizens at risk of poverty. we voted to modernise legislation and develop new measures so that the poverty reduction target set in the eu 2020 strategy is met.
in writing. ‒ combating poverty is one of the five measurable objectives proposed for eu 2020, encouraging the adoption of national policies to protect women, in particular, from the risk of poverty. in this context, i consider it important to reform macroeconomic, social and labour market policies in line with gender equality policies, as the objectives of fighting poverty cannot be achieved without fighting women's poverty.
in writing. ‒ poverty levels in the union are unacceptably high. clearly, the increase in poverty is directly linked to the financial crisis and the subsequent austerity policies. i believe the commission and the member states must make more efforts to reach the anti-poverty targets, and that a minimum income scheme above the 60% national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are essential tools in this respect. moreover, i believe financially vulnerable households need better protection against energy poverty and more support to improve their energy efficiency. i therefore support the call for a winter heating disconnection moratorium, to prevent energy cuts during winter months in case of financially vulnerable households, the call for an eu summit dedicated to the reduction of poverty and the support for a stronger role for consumers and for stronger consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely unacceptable for poverty to increase in the union. the commission and the member states must make greater efforts in order to meet anti-poverty targets. minimum income schemes and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are first steps. disadvantaged households need better protection against energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims to build bridges between energy policy and social policy in a european debate by stressing that the eu is getting further from the eu 2020 anti-poverty target. amongst the main pillars to fight against poverty is the effective reduction of household costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the problem of poverty in the context of increasing household current expenditure is extremely topical and more common, with more than 120 million european citizens, according to official statistics, at the threshold of poverty and social exclusion. the report adopted today thus proposes a series of measures that member states can use to achieve the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people living in poverty by at least 20%. it is important that the european executive works with the member states to adopt and promote an integrated strategy to combat poverty. it is largely about passing economic, social, employment and education laws for the purpose of economic development and, by implication, poverty reduction.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis that has hit the european union in recent years and the austerity policy pursued by a number of member states have led to an increase in the share of the population affected by poverty at union level, from 117 million people in 2008 to 122 million in 2013. this is reflected in the high share of expenditure on food, housing and utilities. regarding household current expenditure, around 10% of the eu population cannot pay their utility bills, 12% do not have adequate heating and 16% live in unsanitary spaces. against this background, the european institutions have developed thermal rehabilitation projects for housing, which are an important step forward. however, more action is needed in this regard, such as the adoption of a european moratorium on the unpaid winter debts, the establishment of a european minimum income guarantee of 60% of the average eu salary, the organisation of a european summit on combating poverty, and more effective protection of consumer interests. i consider this to be a very important document and therefore support its adoption as a first step towards a more elaborate european strategy against poverty.
in writing. ‒ between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty in the eu rose from 117 million to 122.6 million. this is contrary to the eu's strategic objective set out in the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce by 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020. in this perspective, this report establishes a link between energy poverty and general poverty and highlights that this is the result of a number of underlying conditions, including high energy prices, health and disability issues, the type of heating system used in homes and the quality and energy performance of the housing stock. the report proposes as a solution the provision of microcredit or low-interest loans, for example through the european investment bank, to low-income households to support their investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency. another proposed aspect is to increase investment in energy efficiency in social housing through european funds and to guarantee access to adequate housing for all, especially the most disadvantaged. i therefore voted in favour of the report on combating poverty in the context of increasing household current expenditure.
in writing. ‒ private investment in the public sector contributes to the efficiency of public investment. public-private partnerships in development have successfully contributed to reducing poverty among the most marginalised. support for development partnerships through coordination of member states with international organisations and the private sector is a major boost for developing country economies. micro-enterprises can play a key role in development strategies because of their ability to adapt more easily to market needs. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that promoting private initiative in developing countries creates an attractive environment for investment.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to identify new sustainable and effective instruments to invest in the growth and development of people and businesses, with industrialisation as a driver of well-being and development. i support the expansion of the private sector to ensure individual freedom and economic efficiency. social security or social insecurity are considered to be fundamental social problems. from an economic point of view, the security of individuals is influenced by their financial independence, in other words, the lack of income, the state of poverty automatically attract and the feeling of insecurity. it's widely acknowledged that having a decent job is the best way out of poverty. the private sector provides about 90% of jobs in developing countries and is therefore a key partner in the fight against poverty. full and productive employment and decent work, including the implementation of labour standards, are essential to tackling inequality and social exclusion. the new agenda should aim at eradicating poverty in all its forms and at achieving sustainable development in a balanced and integrated manner.
in writing. ‒ globally, there is no significant project that has not been done in a public-private partnership. i voted to support smes in developing countries that face greater constraints than those within the european union. the creation of an enabling environment and their retention in the formal economy is a priority.
in writing. ‒ as the private sector is the engine of economic growth in all market economies, i believe it is necessary to look at how it can be more involved in sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, health services and property rights, which remain largely untapped.
in writing. ‒ in the context of aid resources declining and new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector will play a key role since these donors can bring innovation, expertise and effectiveness in development policy. however, the role of the private sector in development should be well-defined to ensure that there is full accountability and that development goals are not distorted. i would like to express my satisfaction for the outcome of the negotiations; this is a very-balanced report in which the crucial role of the private sector in development is recognised and positively assessed without ignoring the need to frame their work and to ensure that poverty reduction is their main goal when involved in development. i am especially in favour of supporting efforts to better frame the methodology and services that can be covered by public-private partnerships (ppps), ensuring access to ppps to firms not only from donor countries, and avoiding the risk of supporting eu companies through eu development funding.
in writing. ‒ the private sector is the backbone of the economy and public policies must be designed to develop the private sector, especially smes. according to the united nations development programme's human poverty index, 1.2 billion people earn less than $1.25 a day, and this should concern us all. the only way out of poverty is through economic development and, in particular, through the development of the private sector. i voted for this report because i support the development of the private sector, especially smes. i welcome the provision reiterating that the eu has a responsibility to support a fair global tax regime, the introduction of mandatory public reporting requirements for each country in respect of transnational corporations, which currently create unfair competition for smes in many cases. the report contains many proposals that can bring economic growth and sme development, more jobs and more income to every citizen.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will engage european and international enterprise sectors in order to achieve sustainable development in areas such as agriculture, land tenure and property rights, sustainable energy and green sectors, education, healthcare and sanitation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is concerned with creating conditions for the development of the private sector at member state level. i am pleased that the european parliament is trying to stimulate a sector that plays a major role in economic growth, with private firms contributing around 80% of gdp to member countries and being a source of job creation. the report voted on today proposes a series of measures that the european union and the member states should promote in order to develop the private sector. it is essential for national governments to adopt development strategies focusing on cooperatives, smes and small producers, which is one of the provisions of this document. i also welcome the report's proposal to promote the concept of women entrepreneurship in member states' strategies by proposing training programmes and with the aim of improving a long-term objective of the european union: gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the european union's financial assistance for the development of poor countries around the world is a significant instrument that has allowed remarkable progress to be made in many areas of interest, such as health, education and agriculture. however, the assistance provided by the european institutions and the member states cannot cover all the investment needs of developing countries. this is why it is necessary to involve private partners in existing projects, as this may generate an additional influx of financial or other resources. public-private partnerships can be a solution to the achievement of the millennium development goals, but only to the extent that they respect existing transparency and accountability regulations in the field, avoiding the promotion of private interests that may be contrary to the achievement of public development goals. in this respect, i appreciate the contribution of the private sector to the development of the world's poor countries, through its expertise, innovation and efficiency. however, i believe that all this must be put to the service of achieving the development objectives internationally agreed by the european union, while respecting existing standards and avoiding hidden subsidies. the present report is only a first step in the right direction.
the debate that is taking place here is extremely interesting, madam commissioner. i think it would be really worthwhile for the european commission to produce some kind of book, some kind of summary of the issues related to autonomous vehicles, the issues that the public sector, the individual states and ideally the eu will have to respond to. i see three main areas where the issue of autonomous vehicles affects us as national and eu representatives. these are first of all the legal issues that have been mentioned here, then the issues of adapting transport infrastructure as the second topic, and the third topic, which is the issue of cyber security, which has also been mentioned several times. as regards legal issues, i believe that it would be very good if any changes to the law were to take place at european level, because under the principle of subsidiarity it would be very bad if each member state adapted its national legal regimes to the possible introduction of autonomous vehicles. the strongest topic that has been mentioned and related to this is the issue of liability for damage, where it will have to be clearly clarified who is responsible for the damage caused by the operation of such an autonomous vehicle. the producer, the consumer, those are the things that need to be discussed. the question of adapting infrastructure is also a subject that should be european. it is not possible for each country to tackle this issue on its own and to adapt transport infrastructure in a different way. obviously, these cars don't distinguish all the brands that exist today. these are issues that belong to europe.
the automotive sector is currently undergoing rapid development due to the development of technologies. advanced driver assistance systems are already a reality. we'll soon have partially autonomous driving, fully autonomous parking systems, collision avoidance and traffic jam assistance, and in the not too distant future, fully autonomous driving. the european commission needs to think of a strategy and plan to update legislation, which urgently adapts to the new reality: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the european union's road safety legislation. in addition, existing or future projects to improve the current transport infrastructure of member states must already take account of these developments and innovations in the motor vehicle sector.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, you started by saying that you have high expectations. i too have high expectations from the eib. in the light of what the commissioner and the eib representative were saying, do you think that what has been done and changed so far has really improved access to finance for smes? or do we find that smes again face obstacles in accessing structural funds and, of course, eib funds?
blue-card question.– how do you think that this report, if adopted, is going to influence the european investment bank to adopt, eventually, a new lending strategy towards the member states?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i am glad that you have started by raising the first of the three problems, that of the over-concentration of funds allocated to the first five member states. i had an amendment and a proposal for mr juncker. my question is why the geographical criterion, which must be taken into account for a balanced allocation, was not voted on in parliament when i asked for it. what is your and your group's view?
madam president, commissioner, mr hoher, certain negative aspects of this report are a signal of a serious breach of the european union treaties. it is clear that, under the current tensions, the mechanisms available to the european union are not working to their intended purpose. given that the only reason for the existence of this prestigious institution is to reduce the economic disparities between member states, i believe it is necessary that the eib reports detail how, through the work carried out, this requirement, so important for all of us, citizens of the european union, has been fulfilled. i would remind you that, as the report shows, 60% of the projects started were awarded to the five largest economies, and the remaining 40% were awarded to the other 23 member states. i do not see how this so-called european way of financing projects can help to reduce the gap between the economies of the union. it is not fair for an institution belonging to all member states to finance exclusively the same great powers of the union, to the detriment of the other member states.
the reporter. madam president, on behalf of the committee of the regions, where i am parliament's rapporteur, i say from the outset that i decided to grant discharge because it is an encouraging discharge precisely to reform this committee of the regions, to understand that we live in a world where every penny counts and it matters how and what we spend it on. first criticism: we don't run on the money of the citizens. in 2014, the committee of the regions carried out 787 missions to the member states, including over 200 missions to greece and italy in september. over eur 8 million was spent on travel and meeting allowances for members alone and over eur 400 thousand on staff. i do not know what european citizens have gained from these missions, but i do know that they have lost 9 million euros. the documents we received from the committee of the regions on these issues were hundreds of pages long, vague, unclear, imprecise and lacking precise figures. a second criticism, about the documents sent, we asked for the answer to short questions and they could be answered on an a4 page. instead, again, i got hundreds of pages in response. what does that mean? it means that there is an inability to synthesise in those who work in the committee of the regions, it is excessive bureaucracy and also to send the rapporteur hundreds of pages is also a kind of disrespect. now, some good things: there's been an effort to pass some rules on integrity whistleblowers, the ones in institutions that basically tell us what works, what doesn't work legally in institutions, so what's illegal, but they only came into effect on january 1, 2016. it's already the case of whistleblower mccoy, who since 2003 has failed to complete his case. it's 2016, 13 years is in process with the committee of the regions and i think any man is crazy to sit 13 years in processes. and olaf said that this man is right, so it is up to the committee of the regions to say, yes, he is right, to end this conflict and, by june 2016, to report to us, the parliament, on how it has resolved this case. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee of the regions for their cooperation and for having visited them. i hope we can all eliminate excessive and costly bureaucracy because we have to adapt to a rapidly changing world. all of us. whoever is left behind, then they should change jobs. i am also the discharge rapporteur of the european data protection supervisor. and here are some observations: first, the authority should include in the 2015 annual report the decision on whistleblowers - those who report illegalities in institutions - to comply with the staff regulations. i also remind the european data protection supervisor that our cvs, people's cvs are public, they circulate freely, as is normal, on the internet, on wikipedia, everywhere, and as such, cvs of european officials or national experts do not fall into the category of data to be protected because, at this moment, the european data protection supervisor is telling the european institutions that cvs should not be published because they are personal data to be protected. no, they are european officials who are on the citizens' money and their cvs have to be published for everyone to see. i recommend that the authority be relieved of its responsibilities again, again to encourage the changes it needs to make. i have a few comments on the discharge for the agencies dealing with justice and home affairs, because i was rapporteur for the libe opinion for these agencies. first, we still have a problem with cvs being published - this to multiple agencies. we have a problem with protecting or not protecting, more specifically, those who reveal illegality in institutions, and we have a problem with conflict of interest, it seems that the conflict of interest is not yet understood, that it is not normal that, in an agency that says yes or no to a food product, people from the food companies that participated in the manufacture of that product work. i'll stop at two agencies in particular: the fundamental rights agency, where several court actions were initiated against the agency due to abuses committed against persons who reported irregularities and failed to comply with the judgments of the civil service tribunal. let's not make fun of people who tell the truth. and the second agency that i want to talk about and end with is the food safety agency, where we had a glaring case of conflict of interest in january 2016: the agency was announcing a possible hiring of a director from the food industry. therefore, even if it subsequently withdrew its application, the mere intention of the agency to make such an appointment is inadmissible. how do you hire someone from the food industry to a company that gives advice to the food industry and we don't know what we're eating and they get rich at the expense of our health? there are also good examples, eurojust, for example.
the reporter. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs and my fellow committee members for their cooperation. there is only one amendment on all eight joint venture reports, so i think the work in committee has been very good. i think joint ventures are extremely important in this period, we talk a lot about economic development, economic growth, jobs. the first condition is to have research and development and, in particular, innovation and the practical implementation of research results. i think that the joint ventures that are now operating in the union have already shown themselves to be useful, especially in terms of application in practice, especially if we take as an example, as a first example, sesar which has already started implementing the results of research in air traffic management systems, this example is a very good example. clean sky has reached the stage of having very important technology demonstrators that can bring great benefits to the aviation industry, and i hope we will find the financial means to put them into practice. imi is doing well, i think, in putting the research into practice. fch is the only one of the joint ventures that has used, which in fact contracted all the money allocated in fp7 during the old mff. f4energy is a special case, shall we say. of course it is the domestic agency for iter, for the international iter organization. i think iter has started to show that it can do something. i think 80% of what's done there is ordered. there is still a problem with the program and the funding. there's a plan put forward by the new director, we're waiting to see that plan approved, which is why we've proposed postponing the discharge until the fall, but the report supports this international project and, of course, supports the joint venture. you know that there were two other joint ventures, artemis and eniac, they merged into one, ecsel. artemis, eniac and ecsel received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors on the grounds that it cannot be established exactly whether the error rates calculated on the basis of national rules, because that is the regulation of the three joint ventures, and therefore it cannot be established exactly whether these error rates fall within the level requested by the institutions. i think we can take a step forward, i think that through documentary evidence from the national institutions in this field, the national authorities in this field, we could establish whether or not what has been done so far is correct. it is the request of parliament, we ask the court of auditors and of course ecsel, the joint undertaking which is now responsible for the work of these two former joint undertakings, to ask for these two additional documents and thus to resolve this situation in the future. so we ask for the postponement of artemis and eniac and for the discharge to be granted to ecsel. furthermore, in the resolution we ask the court of auditors to provide information in detail or to go into more detail about the assessment of the in-kind contribution and the contribution in general of the private partners about the error rate and how the expenditure and use of the funds allocated through fp7 and horizon2020 is running in parallel because this activity will run for another three years in parallel with funds from, say, different budget lines. i would also like to thank the court of auditors for the cooperation we have had and for the repeated meetings and consultations we have had during this period and i hope that we will still be able to resolve the three postponed discharges by the autumn.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i am happy to be here and to participate today in this important debate on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2014 in the context of the annual discharge procedures, as foreseen in article 319 of the treaty. on 23 february my colleague jeroen dijsselbloem, the dutch finance minister, had the honour of presenting the council’s recommendation to grant discharge to the commission – to the committee on budgetary control – and tomorrow this plenary will cast its vote. clearly the citizens of europe expect us to be particularly attentive to the quality of eu spending, and rightly so. however, sound financial management is not only important from a public opinion perspective; it is our legal obligation to execute the eu budget in compliance with the agreed rules. keeping eu expenditure under strict control is crucial for all of us. the council recommended that discharge be granted to the commission and outlined the reasons leading to this recommendation. nevertheless, the council also reaffirmed that there is still a lot to improve in the execution of the eu budget. first of all, the council regrets the insufficient reduction of the error rate of 4.4% and thus the fact that most spending is still affected by a material level of error, and that important policy areas such as agriculture, cohesion and research remain prone to error. the council was particularly concerned about the fact that, according to the court’s findings, the commission, national authorities and independent auditors had enough information to prevent, detect and correct these errors. clearly, all financial actors involved in the management of eu funds need to assume their responsibilities in full, including member states. the council urged the commission and member states to strengthen their mutual cooperation and stressed the importance of avoiding errors in the first place. therefore it highlighted the need to increase the quality of controls in order to prevent or detect and correct errors before declaring costs to the commission. so yes, i agree with the rapporteur, claudia schmidt, that what we need is not more controls but better implementation of the existing control mechanisms. in other words, this should – and could – be done in a cost-efficient way without adding extra layers of control. moreover, the council recommendation also recalled that recoveries and financial corrections are essential elements in the protection of the union’s financial interests. payments should be interrupted and suspended whenever significant deficiencies are identified and until corrective action has been fully implemented. unduly-paid amounts must be recovered without delay, and full transparency regarding the implementation of corrective action must be ensured. the council further calls upon the commission to provide the budgetary authority in the year 2016 with a comprehensive report based on systematic data already available on the areas where the level of error identified is persistently high, as well as on the root causes. additionally, the council also agrees with parliament that the simplification of rules remains paramount in achieving an unqualified audit opinion. simplification and improved guidance not only reduces the administrative burden on the beneficiaries and respective authorities but also allows for more efficient and less costly controls. the council welcomes the commission’s work in the management of payment appropriations and calls for a constant monitoring of outstanding commitments. it also recalls its request to the commission to provide transparent and timely information on the long-term cash flow forecast in order to better match payments and available funds with needs. despite the fact that the revenue part of the budget was not affected by material error, the council underlines the importance of mitigating the impact of revisions of national gni data as well as measures to reduce the length of outstanding reservations. finally, the council welcomes the court’s approach in evaluating the results of eu spending and measuring aspects related to performance. the council encourages the commission, following the court’s recommendation, to identify the most suitable and effective performance systems for the eu budget in cooperation with the court and member states. so i agree with the emphasis that rapporteur dlabajová puts on a performance—based budget. within this context, the council – while of course being cautious not to prejudge conclusions – welcomes the commission’s initiative budget, for the results of which i believe the first expert meeting took place last week. it is evident that we are still far from the overall aim of an unqualified audit opinion from the court. the council therefore reiterates its wish to see year—on-year improvements in the financial management systems and in the estimated level of errors across all policy areas. the council is constructively engaged in discussions on how to improve the performance framework of the eu budget and to ensure that this budget delivers better results in view of the multiannual financial framework mid—term review and of the next mff. the council invites the court to provide its input for this review in a timely manner. in conclusion, the presidency has started to work on the next mff through the conference in january and the following discussion at the general affairs council on 12 april. the aim is to explore, at an early stage, possibilities for improvement and reform. from this several principles have been identified that could provide a way forward, and the joint results of these discussions will be presented in a presidency report to the council, parliament and the commission.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, dear rapporteurs, madam minister, president caldeira, honourable members of the european parliament, of the court of auditors, i would like to start by thanking all of you, and in particular the rapporteurs we have listened to, and the court of auditors, the council, for the seriousness with which you approach the debates on the 2014 discharge procedure. we are at a time when europe requires from us to concentrate on making absolutely best use of our people’s sacrifice. they are those who fund our budget. this year’s discharge is remarkable, with the alignment of all institutions – parliament the council, the court of auditors, the commission – on the importance we assign to focusing on the performance of the budget, what and how well it delivers for the eu economy and for our citizens, as well as the compliance with the rules: i recognise we have work to do in both areas. we have stabilised the error rate – we have to continue to drive it down – and, very importantly, we have to work on extracting the highest possible value from our budget. as the minister just mentioned, five or six days ago, on 22 april, we had the first meeting of the interinstitutional working group on performance. we start by defining what is performance so we see eye to eye, how we should measure it, as well as how we can move most systematically towards performance-based budgeting. i want to recognise the rapporteur madam dlabajová for her determination to make us expand our discussions from what used to be primarily focus on the error rate to a very strong footing in policy objectives and results achieved, and in that spirit i would draw four conclusions for us (not pretending that this exhausts all we have learned from the debate) in the following. first: alignment of budgetary priorities; second: better reporting on performance and budget focus on results; third: dealing with persistently high error rates, a topic that the minister brought up; and last but not least: how we strike the right balance between risk management and risk avoidance. so let me start with the first point. as we approach the midterm review revision, it is time to honestly identify to what degree we are capable of matching political priorities with the dedication of our budget. it is a question that will take us, hopefully, to important conclusions for the rest of this financial perspective, and also it would help us to see whether we are fully and entirely using the flexibility of the budget that has been granted in this multi-year financial perspective. another part of the debate would be how these political objectives are translated into operational objectives on the ground and how to ensure adequate reporting back on the results achieved. we know that in the current financial perspective we have made a very big step forward in respect of priorities and measures to what extent we achieved what we have said we would achieve, but we are not perfect; there are lessons to be learnt and fed into the preparation for the next generation of programmes, and i want to stress again the importance of interinstitutional dialogue. working together we can achieve significant improvements. second, the debate showed a need for better reporting on performance. we have a lot of information available, but we have to organise it so it guides our allocation of resources that we streamlined reporting better, we improved the quality of our indicators. in this respect, i want to announce that we will take an important step this year when the synthesis report in the article 318 report are combined in one, and this would provide a more complete picture on the implementation of the eu budget. in addition, we are very much aware of the necessity to insensitise earlier detection of risks of errors and errors. avoiding them in the first place is the best way to deal with them. we also will continue our work on the multi-annual nature of errors. we know that we measure them on an annual basis, but our programmes are multi-annual. we want to provide incentives for corrections so they are actually driving down the cost on errors on our citizens. third, we have been asked to look into the persistently high level of errors. we are going to present, later in this year, a report with analysis in this area. i want to stress that it would be drawn mostly on the prior experience from the previous multi-year financial framework 2007-2013. there are limitations how much we can translate lessons from there, but we would do our best to assess, on the basis of the latest information, what are the systemic risks and how we can best reduce them. last but not least, we want people to be mindful of risk management opportunities. the minister talked about simplification – very important. we have a huge opportunity with the changes in the financial regulation to achieve simplification, but we can never bring errors to zero, and we do not want us to shy away from what may be riskier but very high-value activity. take for example development. if we want to prevent conflicts, to reduce the catastrophic impact of lack of development, we ought to invest in fragile situations. they are riskier, and therefore we have to help our teams to manage these risks. but we do not want them to not to do the right thing because they want to be protected by inaction. similarly in migration: speed of action there is critical, and we are going to be working under demanding circumstances, where challenges change every day. let me finish with a quote from ms dlabajová. she says: ‘the future becomes the past’. i would add that we should learn from the past to secure a better future, and discharge is fantastic in this regard.
president of the court of auditors.– madam president, the european court of auditors welcomes this opportunity to participate again in the closing debate of the discharge procedure for the financial year 2014. i would first like to congratulate all the rapporteurs who have intervened and, in particular, mrs dlabajová for the huge amount of work she has done, and of course the whole committee on budgetary control. their reports are indeed valuable for this exercise, and the report on the european union budget, in particular, draws important lessons that we cannot afford to ignore. many of those are based on the work we have performed in our reports, so for those working at the court – for our members, for our staff – it is very gratifying to see how seriously our recommendations are being addressed in the different discharge reports. in particular, as regards the european union budget discharge, we think indeed that the challenge now is to ensure that the lessons we have learned from the past, in particular in the 2014 financial year, will lead to short and long-term improvements in the way the european union funds are used. it is very encouraging to have already listened today to the commitment that all the institutions are showing on the need to act. for that to happen, we need those lessons to be reflected in the mid term review of the current multiannual financial framework; we need them also to be reflected in the revision of the financial regulation, and we need to work together – all the institutions in their different roles and capacities – to develop a budget more focused on results. as i said in november last year, we believe it is time to start developing a wholly new approach for european union spending and investment. that implies the european union budget being better targeted to the european union’s strategic objectives; it needs to be more flexible in a crisis – refugees and migration were mentioned – and it also needs to be used more efficiently, and then there is also huge room for improvement. our 2000 annual report highlighted the scope for tackling financial backlogs, reducing payment errors, and improving reports on results. the commission has welcomed the message, has accepted our recommendations and, as we listen now, is acting upon them. that is very encouraging. in turn, the court will follow up all these developments in our 2015 annual report, which we are currently preparing. this year we hope to be able to publish it in october, earlier than in previous years. i want to thank the commission, and in particular vice-president georgieva, for their support in achieving this target, and we also very much count on parliament’s acceptance of this. we are also actively engaged in strengthening dialogue with this parliament and its committees to ensure that we produce reports that provide you in this house with the maximum assistance for you to exercise effective public oversight over the implementation of the european budget and european union legislation. i will conclude by saying that the european union must make the most of the opportunity it has now to fundamentally review how public funds are raised, spent and managed to achieve the european union objectives.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. as the author of the afet opinions on the discharge of the european commission and the european external action service, i would like to express my support for the recommendations made to these two institutions in the various reports we are debating today on the way the budget for the union's external activities is managed. i think that when we discuss how the money that has been and is being spent on foreign policy in third countries, it is essential to remember that the impact we will have depends on a lot of factors: local, regional, factors that we cannot control. i therefore consider that the management of the budget allocated to the union's external activities must be sufficiently flexible to be able to respond quickly and effectively to developments in third countries. i also believe that the management of these funds should be made fully transparent. it also seems important to me that both the commission and the european external action service should make efforts to drastically reduce delays in payments, errors and to improve the number of projects financed by the union in third countries.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– madam president, as rapporteur for the committee on development opinion on discharge implementation of the eu general budget for 2014 and on the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th european development funds (edf), i would like to raise some concerns about certain points that were included in the political resolution accompanying the discharge. first, in both the committee on development and the committee on budgetary control (cont), we expressed concerns at the inclusion by the rapporteur of some critical and unjustified phrasing and figures drawn from an unofficial working document by a colleague on the cont committee and which had never been approved by the cont committee. i strongly oppose the inclusion of any references to this document in the edf discharge. moreover, the rapporteur calls for one quarter of the 11th edf to be used in combating the migration crisis. however, the scope of the edf is to tackle the root causes of migration by supporting sustainable development, and focusing it on addressing existing migration flows would send out a false signal and may lead to a misappropriation of funds. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of amendments 5, 6 and 7 in order to ensure that the resolution we will adopt tomorrow not only paints an accurate picture of the reality of projects in our missions in this region but also that it does not call into question the fundamental principles of this important fund.
in writing. without underestimating the results achieved in the economic and social development of some countries and regions through the use of the european development fund, i draw attention to the fact that some of these countries, recipients of european funding, have not adhered to the agreements on tax transparency, combating money laundering and tax evasion. i therefore believe that such countries should be excluded from european funding until they join the tax transparency agreements. otherwise, instead of european money reaching the people who need it, it will end up in tax havens, in the accounts of kleptocrats and other corrupt people.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i am very pleased to be here tonight. let me be clear: attacks on hospitals and schools in conflict areas are simply intolerable. the council – as you do – explicitly condemns such atrocious acts. as you know, promoting compliance with international humanitarian law is a clear commitment by the european union, including the council. in this respect the eu guidelines on promoting compliance with international humanitarian law were adopted by the council in 2005 and reviewed in 2009. the union’s support for compliance with international humanitarian law is also reflected in the action plan on human rights and democracy for 2015—2019. at the 32nd international conference of the red cross and the red crescent movement, the union quite rightly reiterated its commitment to advocate strongly and consistently respect for international humanitarian law. in the context of the world humanitarian summit’s global consultation, common messages were also agreed. the council noted in december in the council conclusions that the world humanitarian summit should produce practical outcomes and specific commitments made by all relevant actors, in particular as regards safeguarding humanitarian access and respect for international humanitarian law. we definitely look forward to discussing summit preparations at your next plenary in may. when it comes to specific situations, the council, for example, in october last year addressed the situation in syria and called upon all parties – and will continue to call upon all parties – to stop all forms of indiscriminate shelling and bombardment against civilian areas and structures, such as hospitals and schools. concerning syria and iraq, in view of the third kuwait pledging conference, the eu and its member states have expressed their concern regarding grave violations of international humanitarian law, including attacks against schools, medical facilities, markets and other civilian areas. regarding yemen, the council, in november 2015, stated that ensuring accountability for humanitarian law violations is an important part of the process to achieve a lasting settlement of the current conflict. it also reiterated its call for the independent investigation of all alleged violations. the monitoring, control and promotion of international humanitarian law is also an essential part of the conclusions on the eu regional strategy for syria and iraq as well as the isil/da’esh threat, adopted by the council in march 2015. also on this occasion, the council called for the protection of medical facilities to be ensured at all times and, on many other occasions, the council has discussed the situation in libya, south sudan, sudan, iraq, nigeria and ukraine and addressed the specific situation of – yet again – educational and medical facilities. as regards the promotion by the union of the prevention and repression of such international humanitarian law violations, the council adopted its cfsp decision in 2011, under which the union and its member states must raise the issue of the widest possible participation in the international criminal court in negotiations or political dialogues with third states, groups of states or regional organisations as an essential means of promoting respect for international humanitarian law. finally, violations of international humanitarian law are targeted by many of the restrictive measures imposed by the union against third states in the context of its external action, for example, syria, yemen, libya, burundi and other third countries. without a doubt, the council shares your deep concern regarding violations of international humanitarian law, including those relating to medical and educational facilities. the council continuously monitors situations, undertakes action, and will continue to act accordingly. in closing, why is this important? let me stress that once more that we should never forget what international law is all about. it is about human beings – men, women, children, families – and we cannot, and should not, lose sight of humanity in our foreign policy. indeed, we have to stay true to our founding values.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, the resolution we have negotiated and which we will be voting on tomorrow condemns very strongly the frequent attacks on schools, hospitals, other civilian structures in conflict situations. these are clearly unacceptable attacks on international humanitarian law and on respect for human rights, the principle underlying humanitarian law being precisely that of protection for those who are not part of a conflict but are caught up in it. the text agreed by the various political groups is a very balanced text. unfortunately, the far left is doing again what it has been used to do on other occasions: it is introducing amendments that have nothing to do with the subject: about western sahara, about abortion, about israel. it's unacceptable to miss the main topic by introducing the same left-wing obsessions. i hope that other left-wing groups will not support this destruction of the main subject we have.
in writing.– the current situation, involving several attacks on schools and hospitals in conflict areas, is unacceptable. the safety of peace zones in time of conflict is jeopardised. the situation of civilians needs to be improved, and the eu cannot stand aside from the reality. international humanitarian law provides for the protection of civilians in countries experiencing armed conflict. the eu has a role to play in ensuring that events of this kind do not happen in the future, and in clarifying the approach to investigating such attacks. the parties responsible must pay for the crimes that have been committed.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the right of access to information and documents is a fundamental right in a democracy. without this right there is no democracy, there is dictatorship. people have a right to be informed and they should be informed about how their money is spent, what happens in administration, in legislation, what decisions we take in the european parliament or in the european institutions, what policies we promote on their behalf. this means legitimacy for us and responsibility for us too, for a democratic political system. transparency and access to information also fill the trust gap that exists today between european citizens and european institutions. yes, there are a lot of european citizens who no longer trust the european institutions, and let's give them information and try to fill that gap. there were colleagues who said to me: but why put so much information on the website of the parliament that people don't need? and the answer is: let's put them out there and let people choose what information they need, not let us decide what they need or don't need!
mr president, investing in children is in fact an investment in the future of our society, and their upbringing and education, in decent and safe conditions, must be a constant concern for everyone, wherever they may be. the commission and the council must find the necessary levers to ensure that there are sufficient guarantees that the best interests of the child are protected in the event of cross-border adoption. it is extremely important that in such situations children have the opportunity to maintain contact with their cultural background and to learn and use their mother tongue. the authorities involved in childcare procedures should make every effort to avoid separation of siblings. but the commission and the council must identify mechanisms to guarantee the protection of the interests of children, european citizens, and i emphasize european citizens, even when they live outside the european union. we are talking in particular of third countries, but which are beneficiaries of economic and trade agreements with the european union, such as, for example, norway. this country is in flagrant violation of the moral and social values of the european union on the family. thus, a child of only three months, who is breast-feeding, can be separated from his biological family and placed in the care of another family without a court decision and only on the basis of an administrative decision for reasons, most of which are unfounded, which is of course inadmissible.
in writing.– european children should enjoy the same rights and the same protection across europe. building a common legal framework in europe is in the best interests of children and can only help families and parents to understand better how they can protect and support their heirs. a closer and stronger european union pre-supposes that children will enjoy the same rights across the member states. in the light of article 24 of the eu charter of fundamental rights, the commission should introduce common minimum standards for the hearing of a child in national civil proceedings in cross-border cases. to that end, dialogue and the sharing of best practices between stakeholders and the member states should be reinforced, and appropriate legal training should be provided for social workers, judges and police officers. a good solution would be the development of specialised chambers within family courts or cross-border mediation bodies, thus allowing fairer and speedier proceedings in the member states. in the meantime, the european union should support europe-wide initiatives aimed at launching a web portal for common users and legal operators, containing clear and easily accessible legal information on national adoption procedures and indicating the authorities to turn to in cases involving cross-border abductions.
mr. president, it has been more than five months since the norwegian child protection service abducted five children from a family with a romanian father, a romanian citizen, a european citizen, a norwegian mother. despite the countless protests of tens of thousands of people, despite many appeals from civil society figures or politicians, including here in the european parliament, nothing in norwegian law and in norwegian practice has changed. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century a three-month-old child can be taken from the family on the basis of an administrative decision only, and then invalidated, as happened in this case, with the baby being returned to the family. this is unacceptable and the european union must take a much firmer line on this issue in its relations with norway.
mr president, i have a similar contribution to make to mr stefanec. this too is evidence of how big a problem the proposed amendment to the gun directive is in some member states. i would like to ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to this problem and to be aware of the sensitivity of the subject and the uproar and discontent that the original proposal of the european commission has caused in the individual member states. for example, in the czech republic, this proposal from the european commission was rejected by both the parliament of the czech republic and the state security council, which is essentially a government body. i therefore urge the commissioner to reassess the extent to which all the provisions of this directive are really necessary in the fight against terrorism and to omit from this proposal those parts which only harass legal gun owners and do not help much in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to a very dangerous phenomenon that is manifesting itself in the countries of eastern europe and, in particular, in romania, namely the seizure of agricultural land by so-called foreign investors, who are in fact speculators. taking advantage of low prices compared to those in western countries, it has come to be that more than 40% of the agricultural area of romania is in the hands of these speculators, who in fact, only farmers are not. the consequences for these areas are dramatic. unemployment is rising, small and medium-sized farms have disappeared, and the peace of the past is being deeply disturbed by the uncertainty of tomorrow. this is mainly due to the fact that the land is rarely cultivated even formally, in reality the subsidies provided by the european union and not the development of agriculture in those areas. the commission cannot ignore this fact and must intervene urgently to regulate this situation which is unacceptable to the european union.
i have been trying for a long time to understand what the mechanism is for the use of the money that the european union gives to turkey. you have spoken about this use and its control, but can you tell me what this mechanism is? i've been trying to find out about him, but no one seems to know him...
question no 3 by mr pimenta (h-0026/97) subject: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the agreement with turkey my question to you is this: what would your alternative be if we, the european union, had not been able to solve the refugee problem in order to ensure, on the one hand, the safety of those people and, on the other hand, the safety of europeans? if we don't make the deal with turkey, what's your alternative?
madam president, as we know, the resettlement scheme adopted in autumn 2015 is not working, unfortunately. on the other hand, the agreement with turkey adopted a month ago is working and its objectives are beginning to be achieved: first, as vice-president timmermans said, the drastic reduction in the number of migrants, and secondly, the protection of greece, which was very exposed. however, there are three side effects to be taken into account: firstly, the change in routes - libya is beginning to become the new starting point - secondly, the emergence of tensions in europe over visa liberalisation and the negotiation of chapters, and thirdly, and not negligible, the rise in tensions in turkey, in particular between president erdoğan and prime minister ahmet davutoğlu, including on a very sensitive issue for turks, that of secularism. these three points, i think, deserve our attention.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, with all the criticism of the agreement reached with turkey, one almost forgets that since the implementation of this agreement people are no longer drowning in the aegean sea. one almost forgets that this uncontrolled irregular arrival of refugees in europe is no longer happening on the scale we saw before, so there are many things that need to be improved, and there is a long way to go, but let us at least acknowledge that human suffering has been limited through joint action with turkey. yes, we need to do more as i said in my introductory remarks, but one aspect i would like to come back to which was not mentioned by all of you is the need for member states to do their part. it is now that member states should take in people in a legal way, those who have the right to asylum and should be coming to europe. there is still a war in syria, people are still fleeing and people deserve international protection. it is our moral duty and legal duty to provide that protection, and now that we have ways of bringing people to europe in a safe and legal way, member states should deliver on what was agreed. on turkey, should we engage, should we not engage? even without the need to tackle this issue jointly, which we could not tackle without turkey – and by the way turkey could not tackle without us – what have those years, the past years, the years of not engaging with turkey, the years of standing back to back, the years of not talking to each other, done for human rights in turkey, for the position of the press in turkey? nothing. we need to engage. i think opening chapters 23 and 24 would be a huge opportunity for us to take the turks to task on human rights, on the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary, on the freedom of the media, etc. this is what we need to do. if they want to come closer to the european union so badly, let them prove that they can. because now – and let me be very clear on this – the distance between us and turkey is not decreasing, it is increasing because of human rights, the media and what is happening in civil society. and if they want to come closer to europe, which is what they state, they should improve the situation of the media, of human rights, of civil society, let us be very clear about this. but all those years when we sort of felt comfortable by ignoring them but not engaging with them, have done nothing to improve the situation in turkey, on the contrary. so i would say, let us engage with them. and let us not forget that we are dealing with a much wider issue than just the relationship with turkey on the handling of the refugee problem. the refugee problem is a global problem and it is a huge problem and it will be with us for a generation at least. the only way forward is to make agreements with our neighbours; the only way forward is to look more intensely at what is happening in libya, at what is happening in the north of africa, at what is happening in sub-saharan africa. the question for us is, are we going to help bring stability to other parts of the world, or are we going to sit and wait for instability to come to europe? i would argue, let us engage with the rest of the world, let us bring development to africa, let us bring stability to our wider neighbourhood. that is the only answer: to come to terms with this huge question. and step one is to engage with turkey. but have no illusions – turkey is only one part of the issue. the problem is much wider, much deeper, much more complicated if you look at places like libya, and perhaps egypt and sub—saharan africa. so let us take our responsibility jointly and let us continue this extremely productive cooperation between the commission and the european parliament; jointly we might be able to get the council to stay on the right track.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, the council is fully aware that the agreement is not the end. it is not the solution. it is an outline of possible solutions and it is the beginning of the implementation and hard work that has been done and has to be done. the council is also fully aware that the member states have to step up their efforts when it comes to relocation, with delivering experts, with helping greece and also with planned resettlement, and be ready, if the implementation bears fruit, to resettle people under the one-for-one scheme in much larger numbers than we are doing right now. i also want to address some of the matters raised. there was talk of a food shortage and questions as to what we are doing when we hear about the situation in the camps. when you look at the situation in greece, it is difficult. there are a lot of things to be built up from scratch. there are a lot of things that have never been done before – not in any country – and greece has to deal with it. part of the way it dealt with it before was by ngos supplying the food. well, when the ngos stopped their work there because they were critical of the agreement – and it is their right to do so – then the food supply also fell short and it has to be resolved in another fashion. it has to be resolved and it is being resolved right now. when i was there two days ago, i heard a lot of criticism and that a lot of things still have to improve, but this was not one of the things that were raised by the migrants that i spoke with. i am also happy that the ngos are returning to greece and are starting to do their work. they are not doing everything they were doing before, but they are re—engaging because they also see that the situation is at least improving. the greek government is also doing what it can to help, and member states are supporting it. i am also happy to be able to say that the unhcr is restarting all activities that were suspended just after the deal was struck. so we are seeing improvements, we are seeing positive effects already, but we also realise that a lot has to be done. there was also talk about migrant flows replacing the route between north africa and italy. my opinion is that it is not replacing it. we saw this route last year and the year before. the route between north africa and italy was heavily used and led to a great influx. we now have one route that is increasing instead of two. we do not see a direct waterbed effect or the replacing of routes being taken, but this has to be taken care of and we have to prevent the second route causing the same horrible images, the same loss of life and the same risks being taken. of course there are a lot of things that have to be ironed out as well. i fully understand and agree with the criticism about, for instance, migrants stuck in greece being uncertain and not knowing exactly when they will be processed. but one thing has to be clear: their only solution is to apply for asylum in greece, get into that system and offer themselves up for relocation. the border will not be opening again. the western balkan route will not be opening again so it is no use remaining in the horrible conditions near the border. it is much better to voluntarily go to the facilities that greece is opening and expanding every day and where there are better conditions for them. i disagree with the statement saying that this agreement has the weakness of being unable to control the external borders. i do agree that control has to improve. i do agree that we have to work at full speed and i also hope for the parliament’s support in that process to work on the european border guard. but if you want to control your borders well, you need to engage with the country on the other side of the border. you cannot just say that you have built a fence and are not talking to the country on the other side, especially when we are talking about borders at sea. you cannot just stay on the shore and say you that ‘you cannot get in, period’. you cannot survive being at sea so you have to engage with the country on the other side and you have to engage with countries on the other side of the external borders. so agreement with turkey would have been necessary in any case. even if we have the strongest european border guard in place ever, you still have to engage with the country that has to take in the people that are not allowed to cross your border and have to have good agreements about re-admission and how you deal with the situation and, in the end, offer security, safety and good conditions for real refugees. regarding the discussion about whether it is a statement or an agreement, i have a lot of agreements with a lot of people that are not legally taken to court so, from the council position, we can have a discussion. but in our position it is not an agreement within the legal meaning of article 218 of the treaty. of course, a lot of the things in that agreement between the union and the member states and turkey have to be dealt with and elaborated on and those individual aspects will of course, when it is legally bound to be dealt with by the proper institutions. to conclude, looking forward, i fully agree that we need to do much more than just implement what we have discussed today. we need to work at full speed on a european border guard system, on a revision of dublin and on more structural european solutions. i look forward to continuing to work and continuing to improve the situation and to cooperate with the parliament in all these matters.
in writing. the eu-turkey agreement of 18 march shows us that there is concrete cooperation between turkey and the member states, especially with greece, which is the country in the eu most affected by the influx of refugees. we are pleased to see that there are legislative amendments in these countries, that there is frontex support for eu border security and control, and that refugees are no longer putting their lives at risk, as a legal pathway is being created for syrian refugees from turkey. the eu has a moral duty to provide assistance to refugees, but this must be done in a realistic and not utopian manner. the adoption of all refugees by member states does not constitute a concrete measure for the syrian people. the eu must support the reintegration into an education system of syrian refugee children in turkish camps, as they will be the generation that will participate in the reconstruction of syria in the years after the end of the war. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to support the creation of educational programmes in turkey for refugee children. and last but not least, i call on the commission to facilitate, through european programmes, the provision of better health services and medicines to syrian refugees.
in writing.– the eu-turkey agreement should be maintained for as long as it works, and despite all the criticisms the results show that for the time being, it works: we no longer witness the uncontrollable flow of migration towards europe, the activities of people smugglers have been disrupted and, most importantly, people no longer drown in the aegean. joint action with turkey also created the possibility that, thanks to european funding, the three million refugees stranded in the country can benefit from more dignified living conditions, including through increased access to healthcare and education. therefore it was a good decision to engage with turkey, especially if we consider the results of europe’s unilateral actions in the years before the agreement. nevertheless, for the benefit of both europe and the citizens of turkey we should stand firm and make sure that, if signed, the visa liberalisation agreement contains strong emergency mechanisms in case turkey does not respect the criteria for the visa waiver regime.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. as also mentioned in the recitals to this resolution, although the eu acquis constitutes an internal market for rail transport services, the share of rail transport in the eu market is modest and stagnates at 6%. at the same time, 54% of users are dissatisfied. since 2013, the european commission has presented the fourth railway package, precisely to improve quality and efficiency in this area. commissioner, how can we talk about an internal rail market when we have huge disparities in the quality of rail infrastructure and when the allocation of the strategic investment fund does not take account of needs on the ground, with investment funds concentrating on the first five or six more developed economies? railway interoperability is of the utmost importance for the development of the transport economy, especially for smes, and therefore i believe that the quality of rail infrastructure in eastern countries should be taken into account when taking measures to create a single railway area.
in writing. the european parliament's agreement on the council's proposal on the technical pillar for the fourth railway package is a win for all of europe, not just for transport. the three directives in the package remove international barriers to infrastructure and interoperability, increasing not only the quality and safety of rail services but also the chances of new players entering the market. it is inconceivable to talk about a single european market, but no operator's trains can go from one end of europe to the other without stopping at every border. it is also incomprehensible how each european authority has to decipher some 11000 laws, rules and other provisions before taking a decision. i would stress that this package is the encouraging signal given to small producers and operators. less bureaucracy means lower costs and shorter trips. a win for producers and operators on the one hand, and for european citizens on the other. last but not least, the development of rail freight and passenger services will help to balance transport forces, providing a viable alternative to road and air transport in europe.
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the common aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia was negotiated on the basis of the council decision adopted in june 2009. this agreement is part of the union's external aviation policy and is of significant importance as it was the first comprehensive agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. this protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, aims at the inclusion of the republic of croatia as a party to this agreement, providing for no changes in content but only linguistic adaptations. i voted in favour of this protocol amending the common aviation area agreement because i consider it essential to ensure equal rights for member states and to integrate them into all joint action.
in writing. ‒ on 2 december 2010, the european union, its member states and georgia signed the first comprehensive air transport agreement with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for the need to conclude additional acts in order to accede to the agreements concluded or signed between the eu member states, the union and one or more third countries, prior to the acquisition of membership. thus, by voting in favour today, croatia becomes a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative proposal to conclude a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal on the protocol relating to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013, which was negotiated by the commission and the georgian authorities and which provides for the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to make the necessary linguistic adjustments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that will achieve a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013. the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. it is part of the union's external aviation policy. the protocol does not introduce changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement but provides for the necessary linguistic adaptations to be made to the agreement following the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ the present legislative proposal aims at the conclusion of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. this idea is seen as a positive step in updating aviation security issues internationally and domestically within the eu. for that reason, the proposal receives my support.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was negotiated on the basis of the council decision adopted in april 2008 and signed on 10 june 2013. this agreement is part of the union's external aviation policy and is of significant importance as israel is a key partner in the efforts to establish a common airspace between the eu and its neighbours to the south and east. this protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, aims at the inclusion of croatia as a party to this air services agreement, providing for no changes in content but only linguistic adaptations. the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for its accession to agreements concluded or signed by eu member states and the union before the accession of that republic, and i therefore voted in favour of this protocol amending the euro-mediterranean agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states attach particular importance to cooperation with the mediterranean countries. the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was signed on 10 june 2013. pursuant to the treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, croatia will accede to the agreements concluded or signed by the eu member states and the union with one or more third countries, prior to its accession, by means of a protocol to those agreements. today, i voted in favour of the additional protocol allowing the republic of croatia, a member state of the union, to become party to the agreement, opening up important communication channels between the balkans and the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative proposal to conclude a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal on the protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which will achieve a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important step towards establishing a common airspace between the eu and its neighbours to the south and east. it is part of the union's external aviation policy and the proposal has no implications for the union budget. the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was negotiated on the basis of the council decision of april 2008 authorising the opening of negotiations. following the accession of croatia, a protocol providing for the necessary linguistic adaptations to be made to the air agreement was negotiated.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal provides for a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of israel, of the other part. the proposal takes account of croatia's accession to the european union and highlights the changes needed for the proper application of this agreement. i believe that the usefulness of this proposal is well justified and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations seeks the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997. this convention governs matters relating to mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. given that the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for a simplified system for the accession of that republic to the conventions and protocols signed by the member states, this recommendation is intended only to determine the date on which the said convention enters into force for croatia. i voted in favour of this report, thus confirming the importance of the accession of new member states to the conventions and agreements of the european union in order to consolidate a strong and uniformly developed union.
in writing. ‒ customs cooperation is one of the main elements of european solidarity. pursuant to article 3 (4) of the act of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states before its accession. these include the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. those conventions and protocols are to enter into force, with respect to croatia, on the date fixed by the council, which may, by virtue of its powers, decide to make any amendments necessary for the adoption of the convention following the accession of the republic of croatia. i therefore voted in favour of this report, so that croatia can benefit from full membership of the union as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report. it is in our interest to ensure that croatia accedes to all relevant conventions as swiftly and smoothly as possible. combating customs infringements is a non-controversial objective, for which the rapporteur clearly expressed her support at committee level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fight against customs offences concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 regulating certain forms of cooperation on crossborder actions for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences both at the level of the national legislation of the member states and of the community customs regulations.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the convention of 18 december 1997 is to regulate particular forms of cooperation involving cross-border action for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of certain infringements of both the national legislation of member states and community customs regulations. i voted for this report on croatia’s accession to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the convention, adopted on 18 december 1997, on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, is also to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the purpose of the convention is to regulate certain forms of cooperation involving cross-border action for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of certain infringements of both the national legislation of the member states and the community customs rules. it is in the interest of all concerned parties to ensure that croatia accedes to all relevant conventions as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible. for this reason, i am very clear in my support for this initiative.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that the alleged offence took place before bolesław g. piecha became a member of the european parliament, and the lack of a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the request had been made with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned, i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of boleslaw g. piecha.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, in accordance with the evaluation made by the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament brings the brussels iia regulation to the table and expresses its wish to update the transnational and crossborder mechanisms of child protection systems. while child protection remains a competence of the member states, article 81 tfeu clearly emphasises the role of the union in adopting measures on family law when they have cross-border implications. we live in a world governed by mobility, which we have managed to legislate very well, but unfortunately we have not considered its implications in the area of family law. together with my romanian colleagues, i also brought to the attention of the plenary the situation of a romanian-norwegian family in norway in which the child protection service of this eu partner state took custody of its children, one of whom was still breastfeeding. personally, i consider this to be a serious act of infringement of a fundamental right of a european citizen in a state with which the eu has close economic and trade relations. the best interests of the child are a priority for the eu, but they must be addressed effectively and a review of the brussels iia regulation is therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ as the migratory phenomenon and freedom of movement have led to an increase in the number of children with parents of different nationalities, i believe that there is a need to deepen cooperation at european level to ensure that the interests of the minor are respected and protected. this involves developing synergies between the child protection systems of the 28 member states, in particular in the areas of protection and judicial cooperation, to which is added the role of social services in ensuring protection, legal procedures for the care of minors, placement and adoption, and the management of cross-border abduction situations. in light of recent events and the refugee crisis, i consider that child protection is essential. in voting in favour of this report, i would like to emphasise the need to create a helpline at european level which could be used in cases of abduction or abuse, but also for advice on care or adoption procedures.
in writing. ‒ all child protection systems should have transnational and cross-border mechanisms in place which take into account the specificities of cross-borders conflicts. i believe the commission and the member states should co-finance and promote the establishment of a platform providing assistance to non-national eu citizens in family proceedings, and of a single european helpline for cases of child abduction or abuse, as well as counselling concerning care and adoption proceedings. therefore, i strongly support the oral question to the council and commission, as the committee on petitions has received a large number of petitions regarding cross-border issues of child welfare, such as the non-recognition of national judgments concerning parental custody, forced adoption and difficult judicial proceedings. it is fundamentally important to communicate the shortcomings experienced by eu citizens and to ensure they may be addressed in the new regulation.
in writing. ‒ the high number of petitions in child-related cases indicates a poor application of the brussels iia regulation. there are major issues related to: child protection in the member states, judicial cooperation, legal proceedings in the field of childcare and cross-border abductions of children by one of the parents. it is necessary to revise that regulation and to define more clearly the concept of 'usual residence'. i recommend that member states ensure that embassies or consular posts are informed from the outset of childcare procedures involving their own nationals and have access to the relevant documents. i also believe that member states should inform parents about the legal rules by making available to them a list of specialised bilingual lawyers and interpretation services. i recommend separate hearings of parents and children before a judge or social worker to avoid influencing them. there is no mechanism at european level for the automatic recognition of national adoption decisions in other member states. i ask the council to present concretely the results achieved in setting up alert systems in the event of child abduction with cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ the brussels iia regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 is a regulation within the european union regarding conflict of law in family law between member states in relation to divorce, child custody and international child abduction. the large number of petitions received regarding child-related cases has raised questions about the implementation of the brussels ii regulation. i voted in favour of this report that will improve child protection and judicial cooperation within the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child throughout the european union, on the basis of petitions to the european parliament. we stress that the best interests of the child must be paramount in all decisions relating to children at all levels, and all child protection systems should apply transnational and cross-border mechanisms that take into account the specific characteristics of cross-border conflicts. the exercise of a fundamental right such as freedom of movement and residence should not constitute a threat to the child's right to family life. we invite the commission and the member states to co-finance and promote the establishment of a platform through which eu citizens who are not nationals of their country can be assisted in family law cases. member states should also improve and strengthen cooperation between their judicial systems in cases involving children.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is a response to the large and growing number of petitions of a cross-border nature received over the years from citizens from various eu member states who are affected by the practices of child welfare authorities, and concerning the protection of children’s rights, child custody, child abduction and child care. all child protection systems should have transnational and cross-border mechanisms in place which take into account the specificities of cross-border conflicts. member states need to put in place monitoring and evaluation systems (with relevant socio-economic and nationality-disaggregated statistics) within a national coordinating framework on cross-border cases involving children. the best interest of the child must be paramount in all eu policy and in all eu legislation, including the revision of the brussels iia regulation, relating to childcare issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation with the european economic and social committee regarding the establishment of a european pillar of social rights.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which will extend the role of the european railway agency, in line with the directives on interoperability and safety, while also adding new tasks, including promoting standardisation. the agency would be able to delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities on the basis of contractual agreements. i welcome the fact that the report also puts forward a number of measures to improve the agency’s governance in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, enhancing the independence of appeal boards, evaluation and setting priorities in order to take account of available resources. this agreement would avoid the need for equipment manufacturers or rail operators to duplicate regulatory applications. it would also contribute to ensuring consistency within the european rail traffic management system. moreover, the technical pillar should reduce costs, increase transparency and contribute to the creation of a single european rail area.
in writing. ‒ one of the eu’s major priorities is the construction of a safe and modern integrated rail network. this has led to the creation of the european agency for railways. i voted for this report, which will extend the role of the railways agency, in line with the interoperability and safety directives, while also giving it additional new tasks, including promoting standardisation.
in writing. ‒ the report in question extends the role of the existing railways agency and creates the legal framework under which it will delegate specific tasks to national safety authorities. without taking away powers reserved to national bodies, the agency will be able to provide the oversight necessary for smoother rail transport. the key benefits of the package overall are in combating the fragmentation of markets and boosting competition by allowing more operators and producers to enter the european market. we have, however, an obligation to ensure that any measures which lead to liberalisation do not affect the rights of those working in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to update interoperability rules to address the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules, e.g. on the use of tsi (technical specification for interoperability), simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register. the report’s recommendations would avoid the need for equipment manufacturers or rail operators to duplicate regulatory applications. they would also contribute to ensuring consistency within the european rail traffic management system. i therefore supported the rapporteur’s recommendation to approve the council’s position without amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to update interoperability rules in response to the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of tsi (technical specifications for interoperability), energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register. this will bring more efficiency and transparency to the european railway system.
in writing. ‒ a higher degree of interoperability will remove international barriers and contribute to the creation of a common european rail space. with more than 11 000 different national rules, the current system lacks competitiveness and blocks access for many companies that would like to offer their services. moreover, the report clarifies a large number of rules and eliminates administrative barriers for operators and producers alike. nevertheless, the changes are to be accompanied by measures which will ensure that the jobs of workers in the sector are protected.
in writing. ‒ the report’s main provisions concern how oversight of rail safety is organised between national and european bodies. any railway undertaking that wishes to operate on the european network has to apply for a safety certificate. obtaining the certificate is linked to a number of conditions that ensure that the undertaking is capable of following all relevant safety rules. i support the report, since this legislation would avoid the need for equipment manufacturers or rail operators to duplicate regulatory applications. it would also contribute to ensuring consistency within the european rail traffic management system.
in writing. ‒ any railway that wishes to operate on the european network has to apply for a safety certificate consisting of two parts that were granted by national safety authorities. i voted for this report, which will institute a transitional period towards empowering the european railways agency to grant a single certificate in consultation with national safety agencies through a cooperation process.
in writing. ‒ the directive concerning railway safety goes in the much-needed direction of simplification by striking a balance between national and european competencies. a major improvement brought by the report is that safety certificates will be awarded via a one-stop shop, era, which will cut red tape, as well as waiting time, without sacrificing quality and safety. i am of the belief that we cannot have a fully functional single market without a fully functioning transport infrastructure that can cross borders. the directive takes a step forward in the facilitation of international railway transport.
in writing. ‒ indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts play a significant role in ensuring the smooth functioning of financial markets and in maintaining the stability of the economy. this report aims to regulate the issuance and use of all indices used as benchmarks precisely to avoid their manipulation. thus, concrete objectives are proposed to reduce the vulnerability of benchmarks to abusive practices, to improve safety standards and systems, to increase transparency towards consumers in order to provide them with complete information on all benchmarks. it will also aim to ensure a level playing field for administrators within the union as well as from third countries. i voted in favour of this report because immediate action is needed to reduce the vulnerability of benchmarks to manipulation and to ensure the stability of financial markets.
in writing. ‒ a large majority of european citizens are directly or indirectly affected by serious cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor and euribor, exchange rate benchmarks and energy or oil indices. the fact that these indices may be affected by discretionary regimes and by weak governance regimes highlights the need to ensure their accuracy, robustness and integrity and the process of their development. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to increase the level of consumer protection, i voted in favour of the regulation introducing a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts in the union.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to create a regulatory framework for benchmarks used as indices. benchmarks are used for financial transactions and are also the basis for some retail services such as mortgages and credits. i support the creation of a strong supervisory and regulatory framework for administrators of benchmarks. therefore i agree with the framework as a means of ensuring proportionality by imposing different requirements for the three categories of benchmarks: critical, significant and non-significant. also, i welcome the decision to give the competent authority the possibility to upgrade any benchmark to a higher category, when certain thresholds are met, and i agree that esma should play a central role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which helps to improve governance standards and systems, to reduce the vulnerability of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts to manipulation and abuse, to improve transparency by providing users with more information about all benchmarks so that they can make informed decisions. also maintain and ensure access to a wide range of benchmarks through the proportionate application of governance requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to create a regulatory framework for benchmarks used as indices. benchmarks are used for financial transactions and are also the basis for some retail services such as mortgages and credits.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. this regulation introduces a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds in the union. this regulation therefore contributes to the smooth functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of consumer and investor protection.
in writing. ‒ the recent imbalances and conflicts in the european neighbourhood have a major impact on the stability of the union and its member states. through better application of ex-ante controls and a thorough assessment of the social, environmental and financial sustainability of major projects carried out in third countries, the european union can strengthen its role as a global player. in addition, the establishment of a genuine joint service centre, together with an integrated resource management system, is of particular importance in order to improve the speed and cost-effectiveness of the missions undertaken by the union. the european commission and executive agencies are also undoubtedly instrumental in foreign policy activities such as support to candidate and pre-candidate countries, development assistance and humanitarian aid to developing and neighbouring countries that are not part of european development fund-funded activities. in voting in favour of the discharge of the commission and the executive agencies, i welcome the positive developments of recent years, the dedication of dg near to supporting the eastern partnership countries and encourage the commission to include more information in its reports on neighbourhood policy activities and aid programmes.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur on the deve committee opinion on the 2014 general budget, i underlined the need to achieve the collective commitment of addressing 0.7% of the gross national income of the union and member states to official development assistance, oda. i highlighted the need to avoid that security and climate change expenditure erodes oda and to ensure that payments appropriations are put at sufficient levels. it is fundamental to manage the indicators efficiently, and in order to do so i believe that we cannot give too much emphasis to the quantitative results, which are easy to determine. the qualitative results on issues like human rights and democracy achievements are more difficult to quantify, but extremely important. finally, i supported granting the discharge of the general budget.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks relating to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. the procedure shall aim at verifying the correct implementation in accordance with the relevant rules, including the application of the principles of sound financial management. the discharge procedure has proved to be a powerful tool, which has had an impact on the evolution of the budgetary system of the european union, while contributing to increasing the political leverage of parliament. i voted in favour of this report on the general eu discharge 2014, the european commission and the executive agencies calling for a more vigilant stance on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european commission and executive agencies discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission and executive agencies. sound financial management principles represent the key requirement for the union budgetary management. therefore high standards of budgetary discipline are needed. the current simplification approach has an important role to play in sound management and its efficiency and i welcome the efforts in this respect. further improvements are sought in terms of budgetary management and shared management practices in order to reach increased compatibility between union and member states’ policies. the commission and the other relevant actors should continue to develop an appropriate methodology and framework to pursue the performance approach further, while a regular follow-up process would be highly beneficial.
in writing. ‒ today i approved the 24 special reports of the court of auditors under the commission's discharge procedure for the financial year 2014, wanting to underline the importance of transparency of information for parliament to fulfil its role as budgetary control authority. i would also like to point out that the results of evaluations are key elements to be taken into account in the policy review process, as they allow adjusting strategic policy objectives and increasing the overall level of coherence of union policies. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the court of auditors' special report no 16/2015 entitled 'further efforts are needed to improve the security of energy supply by developing the internal energy market' highlights elements of major importance for the member states and the eu. in the context of regional instability and the use of energy as a tool of political coercion, i would like to stress the importance of diversification, security of supply and accessibility. it would therefore be appropriate for member states and the eu to increase investment in energy infrastructure and ensure the regulation of the energy market, with a view to the establishment of the internal energy market. improving and strengthening connections with member states and partner countries should also be considered a priority with a view to developing two-way flows at each cross-border interconnection.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. i supported the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these court of auditors' special reports in the commission's discharge procedure for the financial year 2014 because they provide a detailed analysis of the funding programme and provide considerable detail on the administration of certain policy areas.
in writing. ‒ ultimate responsibility for the execution of the european union’s budget lies with the commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and with the principles of sound financial management. the report emphasises that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields concerned, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i voted for this report on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2014 commission discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to check on areas and recipients with a high risk of errors more frequently, to focus on ex-ante controls, to collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending, so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds (edfs) for the financial year 2014. i consider this fund to be an instrument in the framework of development cooperation. i would like to point out that this fund is dedicated to the development of socioeconomic structures in third countries in order to prevent the flow of migration and should not be used for the management of the refugee crisis. in order to use this fund for the purposes for which it was created, it is necessary for the european commission to develop synergies between the union budget, the edf and bilateral cooperation in order to prevent the migrant crisis.
in writing. ‒ i support granting discharge for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th european development funds for the financial year 2014. however, as rapporteur for the development committee opinion on discharge implementation of the eu general budget for 2014, and on the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th european development funds, i would like to raise some concerns on certain points that were included in the political resolution accompanying the discharge. in both the development and budgetary control committees we expressed concerns on the inclusion by the rapporteur of some critical and unjustified phrasing and figures taken from an unofficial working document drawn up by the chair of the committee on budgetary control (cont), which had never been approved by the cont committee. i strongly oppose the inclusion of any references to this document in the edf discharge. moreover, the rapporteur calls for one quarter of the 11th edf to be used for combating the migration crisis. however, the scope of the edf is to tackle the root causes of migration by supporting sustainable development: focusing it on addressing existing migration flows would send out a false signal and might lead to a misappropriation of funds.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. the procedure shall aim at verifying the correct implementation in accordance with the relevant rules, including the application of the principles of sound financial management. the discharge procedure has proved to be a powerful tool, which has had an impact on the evolution of the budgetary system of the european union, while contributing to increasing the political leverage of parliament. the european development fund is the main instrument of eu support for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean and the pacific and for territories aiming at poverty reduction and eradication. i voted against this political resolution following the position of the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ ultimate responsibility for the execution of the european union’s budget lies with the commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the various fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid and tackling the youth unemployment. i voted against this report due to some unjustified negative phrasing and criticism by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ on the general expenditure allowance (gea), besides the reiteration from the previous year, there are amendments adopted which call for more transparency and for revision of the list of expenses which may be defrayed from the gea. it was reiterated that this should not create any new administrative burden. an important compromise which brings more clarity on the future of the voluntary pension fund got adopted, calling on the bureau, immediately after reception of the external assessment, to make a proposal for a comprehensive action plan to address parliament’s responsibilities. we need to address even more strongly the importance of security measures. an amendment calling for a single seat was adopted. i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this european parliament report on the eu general discharge 2014 which calls for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimate responsibility for the execution of the european union’s budget lies with the commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report emphasises that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the various fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i voted for this report on the eu general budget - european parliament discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to check areas and recipients with a high risk of errors more frequently, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ since 2009, the council has refused to submit to the european parliament's exercise of discharge in its capacity as budgetary control authority, by refusing to provide the necessary information, to answer written questions and to attend hearings and debates on the implementation of its budget. in voting in favour of the report requesting the postponement of the decision to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014, i wish to reiterate the importance of the full and good faith participation of the council in the annual discharge procedure as a democratic responsibility towards the citizens of the union. i would therefore like to stress the importance of providing the appropriate information, without which parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european council and the council calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. – ultimate responsibility for the execution of the european union’s budget lies with the commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report emphasises that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the various fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i voted for this report on the eu general budget - european council and council discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to check areas and recipients with a high risk of errors more frequently, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ noting with satisfaction that the court of auditors did not observe, in its 2014 annual report, any significant deficiencies with regard to the court of justice of the european union in relation to the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement procedures, and having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgets, i voted in favour of the discharge report for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv - court of justice. however, i regret that less than 36% of the management are women, although they represent more than 60% of the court's staff, and i wish to express my confidence that this imbalance will be remedied during this financial year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the court of justice calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the eu general budget – court of justice discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the discharge for the 2014 financial year to the court of justice as the court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in its annual report on the audited aspects of human resources and procurement procedures. the commission also notes that the bank's loan book is stable and that the loan book is stable. i voted for amendment no 21, which stresses that only 18% of senior management positions are held by women and calls on the court of justice to correct this imbalance as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in order to comply with the principles of transparency and accountability, the court of auditors has been audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhouse coopers sar. it is clear from the court's analysis that the financial situation gives a true and fair view of the court's position. inviting the court to ensure, in addition to merit and experience, the geographical balance of staff, in particular in senior management and directors, and appreciating the efforts made by the court to improve the gender balance among staff, i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v - court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european court of auditors calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eu general budget – european court of auditors discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the discharge for the 2014 financial year to the court of auditors. the annual accounts of the court of auditors shall be audited by an independent external auditor in order to apply the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to the entities it audits. in 2014, the overall implementation rate of the court of auditors' budget was 98,8% compared to 92% in 2013. we welcome the improvement in the execution rate in the context of a low budget and stress that the court's budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being used for the expenses of the persons working in the institution. the court of auditors plays a crucial role in ensuring that european funds are spent more efficiently and intelligently. this institution is in a prominent position to provide the legislative and budgetary authority with valuable advice on the results and effects of union policies, with a view to improving the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of union-funded activities.
in writing. ‒ the european economic and social committee provides a bridge between the eu institutions and civil society by promoting participatory democracy. this advisory body contributes to the establishment of a structured dialogue between key actors of european civil society, eu member states and third countries. the eesc allows for the elaboration of comprehensive opinions on a wide range of topics of european interest, while strengthening the legitimacy of european policies. having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors and in the hope that this committee will continue its work in the field of european integration and the promotion of the fundamental values of the european union, i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi - european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european economic and social committee calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eu general budget – european economic and social committee discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european economic and social committee (eesc) for the financial year 2014. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors concluded that, overall, the payments for the eesc's administrative and other expenditure were not affected by material errors. i also voted in favour of the amendment on the implementation of the new rules on reimbursement of travel expenses of members on the basis of actual costs, following specific requests made by parliament in the 2013 discharge resolution. we welcome the fact that the system became fully operational with the start of the new mandate of the current eesc in autumn 2015.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions (cor) is the main link between the european union and the social base. at a time when european institutions are facing a growing lack of trust from citizens, it is important to deepen and strengthen cooperation with local and regional authorities. in this connection, i would like to congratulate the cor on the adoption of the charter on multi-level governance in europe and its effects on the optimisation of public policies and their implementation. i voted in favour of the report of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the committee of the regions calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eu general budget – committee of the regions discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the committee of the regions discharge for the financial year 2014. as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, i welcome the adoption in 2014 of the charter on multi-level governance in europe, launched on the basis of a commitment to develop new forms of dialogue and partnership between all public authorities in the union, so as to optimise public policies and public spending and improve policy implementation. we request that the european parliament be informed of the project's strategy in this regard and its results. i also voted for the amendment which encourages the committee of the regions to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation to improve communication and visibility and to work to ensure that members of the institutions are more present at national level. we welcome any new efforts by the committee to optimise the flow of information and thus increase transparency.
in writing. ‒ on the european external action service, there are some amendments inspired by a non-paper drawn by the chair of the committee on budgetary control (cont), in which she compared the performance of some eu delegations based on partial and snapshot information, concluding on their overall exercise. we successfully managed to get adopted a more balanced approach. i therefore voted in favour of granting the discharge to the eeas.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i have abstained in view of this report on the 2014 general discharge for the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have abstained voting for this report on eu general budget – european external action service discharge.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman is the guarantor of the rule of law, democracy and the protection of citizens before national authorities. alongside his task of representing and investigating complaints from citizens, the european ombudsman has taken a more systematic and systematic approach to the complex issues within his mandate. in 2014, the ombudsman also carried out inquiries on his own initiative, which resulted in an unprecedented increase in the number of inquiries. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii - european ombudsman, but i would like to express my concern about the very significant savings made by the ombudsman on the budget lines for translation (eur 190 000) and communication (eur 60 000), both of which are necessary to respect linguistic diversity and equal treatment of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european ombudsman calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eu general budget – european ombudsman discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the european ombudsman discharge for the financial year 2014. any citizen of the union and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state of the union may refer to the ombudsman cases of maladministration in the activities of community institutions or bodies in the exercise of their judicial powers. in this connection, we stress that the european ombudsman must in particular guarantee equal treatment and equal opportunities for all union citizens and that respect for linguistic quality and diversity, as well as the ombudsman's communication policy, must remain pillars of the institution. in accordance with the 2019 strategy, the ombudsman has undertaken own-initiative inquiries, and this is an effective tool. we invite the ombudsman to inform the discharge authority periodically of the outcome of these inquiries and to clearly define the tasks of the coordinator. we also recall that the european ombudsman's priority must be to deal with complaints received from citizens within a reasonable time and that in no case should own-initiative inquiries be carried out to the detriment of this priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european data protection supervisor calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eu general budget – european data protection supervisor discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2014 to the european data protection supervisor. the authority is tasked with ensuring compliance with the strict privacy rules that govern the activities of the eu institutions and bodies. in the court's annual report on the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014, the court did not find any significant deficiencies with regard to the audited aspects of the authority's human resources and procurement procedures. we reiterate parliament's request last year to receive a comprehensive table of all human resources available to the authority, and we stress that this table should be included automatically in the authority's annual activity reports. in 2014, the authority had a total allocated budget of eur 8012953 (eur 7661409 in 2013) and an execution rate of 92% (84,7% in 2013).
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution envisages granting discharge to the european data protection supervisor (edps) in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the favourable opinion of the parliament follows the analysis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the authority's budget. the report shows that the payments made by the authority for administrative and other expenditure during the year ended 31 december 2014 are free from material error and that the expenditure surveillance and control systems examined were effective. although the discharge vote is favourable, parliament calls on the authority, through this resolution, to improve its financial autonomy, review its conflict of interest policy and publish detailed information on procurement procedures and contractor selection criteria on the website.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' specific annual reports on the annual accounts of the decentralised agencies for the financial year 2014 and to the opinion of the committees referred for an opinion, i have approved the european parliament's motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. those agencies have a direct impact on the activities of union citizens, which is why it is vital to respect their autonomy and independence in order to achieve the purposes for which they were set up.
in writing. ‒ this is the horizontal report for the 2014 discharge on the performance, financial management and control of the eu’s 32 decentralised agencies. the report raises a few issues of concern, which i support. this includes the rather high level of carry—overs for some agencies, the question of fees from industry and independence, the commission’s proposal for further staff reductions and the administrative burden placed on agencies by the external audit requirements. i voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge, asking the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce as much transparency and flexibility as possible on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of the eu agencies was to carry out independent technical and scientific assessments, so the work of the agencies should have a direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens. in this regard, we stress the importance of the autonomy of agencies, in particular regulatory agencies and those performing independent intelligence gathering functions. many agencies do not explicitly and responsibly include information on the effectiveness and efficiency of their activities in their annual reports. we ask the court of auditors to carry out an evaluation of the performance and results of the agencies and to present its findings in a timely manner, before the revision of the 2016 multiannual financial framework. we invite the agencies to further step up their efforts and improve their communication policies and to ensure greater visibility of their activities through the various tools on social networks to make their activities and achievements known and to ensure that citizens are properly informed about their work. in view of the favourable analysis made by the court of auditors, i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. ‒ in the context of recent crises, energy has often been used as a tool of political coercion, which is why i would like to stress the importance of cooperation at the level of member states' regulators in order to ensure security of supply and increase the resilience of energy infrastructures. i also believe that improving and strengthening connections with member states and partners should be a priority with a view to developing two-way flows at each cross-border interconnection. i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the 32 decentralised agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. i support the agencies in their many areas of work e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) calling for a more vigilant discharge stance, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the related 2014 discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of acer, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency's budget comes entirely from the union budget and, according to its financial statements, the final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing a decrease of 8,8% compared to 2013. as coordinator of the s&d itre, i would like to underline acer's contribution to ensuring the smooth functioning of the single european gas and electricity market. the agency shall support national regulatory authorities in their regulatory function at european level and, where appropriate, coordinate their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report issued by the committee on budgetary control on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, and welcomed the introduction of the detailed monthly procedure for monitoring, which led to an improvement in the budget implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to berec office.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (oarec office) calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec office) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as coordinator of s&d itre, i would like to highlight the role of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) in ensuring that eu legislation in this area is applied in a uniform manner so that the union has a functioning single market for electronic communications. following the 2013 review, berec introduced a detailed monthly monitoring procedure which resulted in an improvement in the budget execution rate; it amended the information security policy to address the identified deficiencies. in view of the court of auditors' analysis, i voted in favour of granting the 2014 budgetary discharge for the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the cdt.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. this european public law agency, with legal personality, was set up in 1994 to provide a judicious response to the translation needs of a large number of european agencies and offices. the centre complies with 80% of the internal control standards (ics) and has made considerable efforts to implement the remaining measures of the ics action plan. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 79,34%, representing a reduction of 4,13% compared to 2013. the commission notes that the rate of execution of payment appropriations was 71,97%, which represents an increase of 5,71% compared to the financial year 2013. the translation centre introduced a new budget planning and monitoring tool, which was used in the preparation of the 2015 budget, a new translation flow management system, e-cdt, and a new computer-assisted translation tool that will improve performance and financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to cedefop.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge for 2014 of the european centre for the development of vocational training. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training in 2014 was eur 17 275 766, representing a decrease of 3,62 % compared to 2013. we note the centre's work to raise the profile of vocational education and training in the eu and its role through its website, social media platforms and the organisation of various events in the host member states. contributions to and support for policies to combat youth unemployment play an important role. the european centre for the development of vocational training contributes to the development and implementation of eu vocational training policies. it monitors labour market trends and helps the european commission, member states, employers' organisations and trade unions to provide vocational training services that meet the needs of the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to cepol.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european police college (cepol) calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european police college (cepol) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ according to its financial statements, cepol's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. the budget of the college shall be entirely derived from the budget of the union. cepol is a european union agency whose mission is to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement agencies on issues fundamental to the security of the union and its citizens. the activities are designed to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and good practice and to contribute to the development of a common european law enforcement culture. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the college's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the college has improved its budget monitoring system by implementing monthly budget reports and by holding regular meetings with all financial actors to analyse and minimise potential carry-overs. we call on cepol to improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to contribute actively to a results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution envisages granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 to the european police college (cepol). the resolution welcomes the college's efforts to improve the budget monitoring system by implementing monthly budget reports and by organising regular meetings with all financial actors to analyse and minimise potential deferrals. the resolution calls on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, to carry out appropriate checks of substance in all cases and to apply the exclusion criteria to eliminate any conflicts of interest, as this is essential for the protection of the financial interests of the union. it also calls for improvements to recruitment procedures and for full transparency in recruitment procedures. although the college adopted a number of guidelines on how to rank candidates, these were not made public. it is regrettable that there is no information in relation to the guidelines in question in the 2014 annual activity report, therefore the college is requested to publish this information and inform the discharge authority of the impact of the guidelines on the recruitment procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to easa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european aviation safety agency (easa) calling for a more vigilant position on discharge, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european aviation safety agency (easa) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the european aviation safety agency. this agency plays a key role in ensuring a high level of aviation safety throughout europe. the agency has also been involved in the implementation of the new flight time limitation regulation (ftlr) and the new flight time limitation regulation (ftlr) as well as in the implementation of the new flight time limitation regulation (ftlr). in the context of a rapidly developing civil aviation sector, the agency should have the financial, material and human resources necessary to successfully fulfil its regulatory and executive tasks in the areas of safety and environmental protection, without compromising its independence and impartiality. the final budget of the agency for 2014 was eur 181 179 098, representing an increase of 8,47% over the 2013 budget. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,1%, representing a reduction of 0,9% compared to 2013. ;21,1% of the agency's budget comes from the union budget, the rest from aviation companies. these financial links with aviation companies could affect the agency's independence, and we therefore call on the agency to provide safeguards to ensure its independence and avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the final annual accounts of the european asylum support office, a european body with a major role in managing the refugee crisis, i voted in favour of closing the accounts and thus granting the executive director of the european asylum support office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to easo.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european asylum support office which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce as much transparency and flexibility as possible on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european asylum support office (easo) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision on the closure of the accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014. we welcome the fact that, following the 2013 discharge, the european asylum support office introduced measures to address recurring problems related to miscalculation of budgetary needs and late payments, as well as transparency and conflicts of interest. the agency plays an important role in the practical implementation of the common european asylum system and was established to enhance practical cooperation on asylum issues and to support member states in fulfilling their obligations at european and international level. the agency's tasks will probably increase further in view of the difficulties encountered in managing the current refugee crisis and its budget and staff will have to increase accordingly. we call on the agency to step up its efforts and improve its budget management and to present an action plan in order to ensure optimal performance in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of the report submitted by the committee on budgetary control, i have granted the executive director of the european banking authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. however, i would like to stress the importance of establishing a financing mechanism that allows this authority to operate independently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european banking authority (eba) calling for a more vigilant commission position on discharge by calling on the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european banking authority (eba) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority (eba) is an independent eu authority whose objective is to ensure an effective and consistent level of prudential regulation and supervision throughout the eu banking sector. its general objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and soundness of the banking sector. we call on the commission to initiate, in the framework of the white paper for the second quarter of 2016, another financing mechanism based on a separate budget line in the union budget and the full replacement of contributions from national authorities with fees paid by market participants. in all aspects of the authority's resources, it should be ensured that the mandate can be fulfilled consistently and that budgetary constraints do not in practice limit the independence, reliability and effectiveness of the supervisory activity. it is also of particular importance that the provisions developed by the authority are designed in such a way that they can be applied to the same extent by smaller entities. finally, i voted in favour of parliament's report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ by this resolution, parliament granted discharge to the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the favourable opinion follows the analysis of the court of auditors' report and the court's statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the financial year 2014. the court's report shows that the budget planning and monitoring efforts of the authority during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget execution rate of 99,81%, which represents an increase of 2,28% compared to 2013. parliament called on the authority to respect at all times the mandate given by the european legislator and not to set standards in areas where the legislative processes have not yet been completed. as regards the authority's blending mechanism, it is found to be inadequate, inflexible and a potential threat to the independence of the authority. therefore, this resolution calls on the commission to initiate another financing mechanism, based on a separate budget line in the eu budget and on the full replacement of contributions from national authorities with fees paid by market participants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. i would like to congratulate the european centre for disease prevention and control for the initiative to create the atlas of infectious disease surveillance and to make it available on the centre's website, allowing interested persons to access the information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to ecdc.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) calling for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge by asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ the commission is ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the field, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid and tackling youth unemployment. i voted for this report on the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ having regard to its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control, i have voted to approve the closure of its accounts for the financial year 2014. i commend the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014, which resulted in a high budget execution rate of 98,77%, representing an increase of 5,81% compared to the previous year. we encourage the continuation of the project on the infectious diseases surveillance atlas and its making available on the centre's web portal. unfortunately, the centre has not been identified by the eu media as the main source of information and calls on the centre to take steps to improve its presence in press reports. we also draw your attention to the fact that the internet portal does not make information available in all the languages of the union. i believe that this needs to be corrected to allow all eu citizens to have access to information on communicable diseases and diseases and to data on the european centre for disease prevention and control website.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to echa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european chemicals agency (echa), which calls for a more vigilant position on discharge by the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ the commission is ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, projects should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid and tackling youth unemployment. i voted for this report on the european chemical agency (echa) discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ since 2012, the agency has been tasked with managing and implementing the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, as well as similar tasks related to the export and import of hazardous chemicals. in 2014, the agency met its recruitment target, with 97% of temporary posts and 94% of contract staff filled at the end of that year. as regards professional development, a new internal mobility policy was approved at the beginning of 2014 to increase internal mobility opportunities and to boost the process. the agency also further developed its reporting procedure and simplified its financial processes. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i support the granting of the 2014 discharge to the european chemicals agency.
in writing. ‒ noting the final annual accounts of the european environment agency and the favourable opinion of the court of auditors and welcoming the legality and regularity of the transactions carried out by the agency, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the eea.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european environment agency (eea), which calls for a more vigilant approach to discharge by the commission, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european environment agency (eea) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, in the light of the court of auditors' report, i support the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. we call on the agency to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, carrying out appropriate substantive checks in all cases, and to apply the exclusion criteria to remove companies in case of any conflict of interest, as this is essential to protect the financial interests of the union. as s&d itre coordinator, i draw attention to the fact that the agency has contracted data backup services, including e-mail services, from a cloud service provider through an interinstitutional contract provided by the commission. unfortunately, the place of storage of the agency's data is not properly defined in the contractual terms, which means that there is a risk that the privileges and immunities of the european communities applicable to the agency are not guaranteed and that the service provider does not fully comply with the privacy safeguards provided for in article 7 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. the agency shall undertake to carry out regular reviews of the implementation of contracts with a view to reassessing risks and taking appropriate and remedial action, if deemed necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the efca.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european fisheries control agency (efca), which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european fisheries control agency (efca) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, in view of the court of auditors' report on the reliability of the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency, i support the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014. given the agency's important contribution to the implementation of the objectives of the common fisheries policy, i would like to underline the importance of cooperation between the agency and the member states in organising the monitoring of the landing obligation, by improving the control and surveillance of fishing activities, by facilitating cooperation, by promoting interoperability and by developing joint capacities. the agency should create a section of its website presenting the agency in all official languages of the union and we encourage the agency to do so, within the limits of its available resources, in order to improve its visibility and reputation. the mandate of the agency should be strengthened to initiate joint operational actions with other european agencies specialised in the maritime field, to prevent maritime disasters and to coordinate coast guard activities at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report for the financial year 2014 of the european fisheries control agency. the report shall include and highlight the main observations and assessments made by the fisheries committee to the agency in respect of the 2014 budget year, inviting and encouraging further improvement of the budgetary performance.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to efsa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european food safety authority (efsa), which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european food safety authority (efsa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality has an important role to play in strengthening and supporting the promotion of gender equality, the mainstreaming of gender issues in union and national policies, and the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex. noting with satisfaction both the achievement of most of the objectives planned for 2014 and the existence of synergies created between the institute and parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eige.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european institute for gender equality, which calls for a more vigilant approach to discharge by the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european institute for gender equality (eige) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality was set up to strengthen and support the promotion of gender equality, including the mainstreaming of gender issues in all union and resulting national policies. in 2014, the institute achieved 95% of its planned targets. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,04%, demonstrating that appropriations were committed on time. the execution rate of payment appropriations was 71,91%, an increase of 1,75 % compared with the previous year. as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the reliability of the annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality for 2014, i support the closure of the institute's accounts for that year.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eiopa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, which calls for a more vigilant position on the commission's discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has been a strong supporter of the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european system of financial supervision (esfs) in the wake of the financial crisis and of the establishment of the authority as part of this system in 2011. i would stress that the authority's role in promoting a common supervisory regime for the whole internal market is crucial for ensuring financial stability and a better integrated, more transparent, more efficient and secure financial market, as well as a high level of consumer protection in the union. the authority's work is purely technical, with key policy decisions being the prerogative of the union legislator.
in writing. ‒ as the prudent approach to budget planning by the governing board did not reveal any irregularities in the aspects audited by the court of auditors, i have granted the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eit.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european institute of innovation and technology, which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european institute of innovation and technology (eit) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as s&d itre coordinator, i would like to highlight the important role that the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) plays in strengthening europe's capacity to innovate, compete with foreign partners and create jobs and well-being. the eit helps businesses, education and research organisations to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship in europe. the institute faced uncertainties regarding its annual budget for 2014 due to the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and horizon 2020 that took place throughout 2013. the eit adopted a set of principles in march 2015 setting the maximum contribution of the eit to the kics, which will be reduced from 100% funding after the first 10 years of their operation to 80% in year 11 and thereafter as follows: 60% in year 12, 40% in year 13, 20% in year 14 and 10% in year 15. the institute will also continue to monitor the progress of the knowledge and innovation communities towards financial sustainability and take the necessary corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' finding on the legality and regularity, in all material respects, of the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, and welcoming the development and adoption by the agency of an anti-fraud strategy in 2014, i have granted the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to ema.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european medicines agency (ema), which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european medicines agency (ema) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency is a decentralised body of the european union responsible for protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. the ema is responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for european marketing authorisations for medicinal products. the commission has also provided the court of auditors with information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and the results of the work carried out by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the detailed information on the corrective actions taken by the agency in response to the recommendations made at the end of the previous financial year by the european court of auditors, the european budgetary authority and the internal audit service of the european commission, and taking note of the assurances of reliability expressed by the court of auditors in its report, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and toxic substances for the financial year 2014;
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to emcdda.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which calls for a more vigilant position on the commission's discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as itre s&d coordinator, i draw attention to the importance of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction's focus on managing the risks associated with the field of information and communication technology in the wider range of risks faced by the centre, especially in sectors such as security, project management and administration. as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, i appreciate the efforts made by the observatory to monitor the 2014 budget with a budget execution rate of 99,62% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 94,93%, which is a slight decrease of 2,78% compared to 2013. the high level of total committed appropriations indicates that commitments were made in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ although it does not have the operational support and expertise to deal with the refugee crisis, the european maritime safety agency has an important role to play in managing this crisis by working with other european agencies. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, as i wanted to underline the important role that the agency has played in saving lives, which is why it is necessary that the agency has all the resources necessary to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to emsa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european maritime safety agency calling for a more vigilant discharge stance by the commission, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european maritime safety agency (emsa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report for the financial year 2014 of the european maritime safety agency. i consider that this report reflects the work of the agency and includes the observations made by the fisheries commission. also stresses the importance of the agency achieving its targets set by the commission in the future, given that falling below the 95% target set for 2014 for the execution of commitments resulted in the penalty of the agency's budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ following the examination of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, the european parliament has decided to grant discharge to the agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. during the financial year 2014, budget monitoring efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,78%. the provisions of the resolution underline the importance of the agency in maintaining maritime safety, preventing pollution from ships in europe and assisting member states and the commission under international and union law. the budgetary and staff cuts implemented during 2014 are regrettable, all the more so as this year the scope of competence was extended to a new set of main tasks and new ancillary tasks were introduced. parliament also requests the agency to complete the necessary corrective actions following the court of auditors' observations of 2012 and to publish on the agency's website, in addition to cvs, the declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the executive director and the members of the senior management.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the assurances of reliability expressed by the court of auditors following the audit and the report prepared by the committee on budgetary control, i have granted the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to enisa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the eu agency for network and information security, which calls for a more vigilant position on discharge by the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european union agency for network and information security (enisa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 708 297, representing an increase of 0,39% over the 2013 budget. i commend the efforts of the budget monitoring agency during the financial year 2014, which resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 85,61%. as itre s&d coordinator, i would like to underline the importance of the european network and information security agency. enisa actively contributes to a high level of network and information security (nis) in the union. the agency shall work closely with member states and the private sector to provide advice and solutions on cybersecurity, data protection, electronic identification.
in writing. ‒ following the examination of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, the european parliament has decided to grant discharge to the agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. during the financial year 2014, budget monitoring efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 85,61%. parliament's resolution welcomes the agency's efforts to conclude the 24 open recommendations mentioned in previous reports of the commission's internal audit service (ias) and calls on the agency to include in its annual report a standard chapter on ensuring compliance with transparency, accountability and integrity.
in writing. ‒ since 2014, the european railway agency has enhanced the involvement of civil society in its work by strengthening cooperation with railway academia, setting up working groups and conducting regular stakeholder surveys to obtain and analyse feedback from interest groups. welcoming these developments and taking note of the assurances of reliability expressed by the court of auditors in its report, i have granted the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014;
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to era.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european railway agency (era), which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european railway agency (era) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european railway agency. i would emphasise the role played by the agency in ensuring the safety and interoperability of the european rail system, the subsequent role of the agency after the development, testing and introduction of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) and in the evaluation of the different ertms projects. the fourth railway package provides for a review of the role (e.g. a single ticketing point for vehicle authorisation and safety certification) and competences of the agency. as the responsibilities increase, the agency will need to be provided with the financial, material and human resources necessary to carry out its new additional tasks effectively and efficiently. unfortunately, the budget cuts applicable to the agency in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are in contradiction with the recently adopted legislation extending the mandate of the agency. the agency should work with member states to increase the number and quality of rail projects, in particular ertms projects, proposed under the connecting europe facility (cef) transport programme.
in writing. ‒ the work of the european securities and markets authority, despite its purely technical nature, is of particular importance in strengthening the safety and soundness of the financial sector and ensuring compatibility with union law, respect for the principle of proportionality and respect for the fundamental principles of the internal market for financial services. i therefore voted in favour of granting the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014, stressing the need to ensure a mandate that can be fulfilled consistently without budget cuts having an impact on the independence, reliability and effectiveness of the supervisory work.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to esma.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european securities markets authority which calls for a more vigilant position on discharge by the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european securities and markets authority (esma) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the european securities and markets authority in respect of the financial year 2014. the european parliament has been a strong supporter of the efforts to establish a new and comprehensive european system of financial supervision (esfs) in the wake of the financial crisis and of the establishment of the authority in 2011 as part of this system. the authority's role is to promote a common supervisory regime across the internal market, which is crucial for ensuring financial stability and a more integrated, transparent, efficient and secure financial market, as well as a high level of consumer protection in the union. the authority's work is purely technical, with key policy decisions being the prerogative of the union legislator. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,89%, representing an increase of 5,71%, compared to 2013, indicating that commitments were made to a greater extent in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european training foundation calling for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european training foundation (etf) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european training foundation operates in a dynamic environment which requires a high level of flexibility, constant updating and adjustment of its activities to support partner countries. the year 2014 was marked by continued political instability in the southern and eastern mediterranean and in eastern europe due to the crisis in ukraine, and therefore the full use of the foundation's work in the field of migration and training needs to be made. since the adoption of its reformed mandate in 2008, the foundation has been working to reduce staff in central administrative functions while maximising the number of experts used, which has resulted in a 19% increase in staff in the operations department, namely from 64 in 2008 to 76 in 2014. we invite the foundation to improve its procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union and to contribute actively to a results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ following the examination of the final annual accounts of the european training foundation and taking into account the court of auditors' report and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the european parliament has decided to grant discharge to the foundation in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,90%, demonstrating that commitments were made on time and that the execution rate of payment appropriations was high. the resolution welcomes the foundation's efforts to publish on its website the cvs and declarations of interests of its board of directors, director and senior management. the resolution also recommends that the foundation include in its annual report a special chapter on transparency, accountability and integrity.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the court of auditors on the reliability of the agency's accounts, i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, established in october 2011, took over its main responsibilities as from 1 december 2012. the agency's core task is to ensure the operational management of the vis and eurodac and to complete the preparations for the takeover of sis ii (schengen information system) operations. the agency will need to ensure that it is fully prepared to take on the difficult task of managing this critical system from now on. in the medium term, it is also developing new large-scale it systems in this strategic area. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution envisages granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the parliament's favourable opinion follows the analysis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the agency's budget. through this resolution, parliament calls on the agency to further improve its budget planning and management as well as its human resources management. although the parliament asked the agency a year ago to establish policies for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, it did not act on the recommendation. therefore, this resolution requests the agency to remedy this issue and to publish the cvs and declarations of interests of the staff. it also recommended that the agency publish a comprehensive organisation chart containing the names and functions of all its staff and stressed the need for clear, binding internal rules on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, on whistleblowing procedures and on so-called 'revolving door' situations.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eu-osha.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european agency for safety and health at work, which calls for a more vigilant position on the commission's discharge, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ following the examination of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european agency for health and safety at work for the financial year 2014, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, the european parliament has decided to grant discharge to the agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the agency's implementation in 2014 of its new multiannual strategic programme for 2014-2020 and appreciates the positive signals reflecting the progress made by the agency in the first year of implementation of the strategy. parliament also welcomed the development of an interactive online risk assessment tool and the agency's efforts, through the healthy workplaces campaign, to strengthen risk prevention and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces. the resolution calls on the agency to make progress overall in preventing and combating corruption by improving public access to documents, tightening conflict of interest rules, introducing or using more stringent transparency registers and providing sufficient resources for law enforcement measures.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to esa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the euratom supply agency which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on euratom supply agency (esa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eurofound.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) calling for a more vigilant approach to discharge by the commission, asking it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union's budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu's annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighborhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. this involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) (rr name: is: european judicial cooperation unit) which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) (rr name: is: european judicial cooperation unit) which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i consider that the financial situation of the european union judicial cooperation unit for the financial year 2014 is better, which has led to a higher budget execution rate compared to the previous financial year. i also welcome the publication of the institution's code of administrative conduct on the website and the detailed presentation of the organisational structure, which is important for the general public. last but not least, i voted for this report because it calls on eurojust to improve its practices in order to spend public money more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to europol.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european police office (europol) calling for a more vigilant commission position on discharge, calling on the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european police office (europol) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european police office has made progress in the implementation of its financial year 2014. this, as the data in the report also show, led to a higher budget execution rate compared to the previous financial year, when the appropriations were not committed on time. i also welcome the creation of an operational procurement section, which has allowed and will continue to allow this process to be centralised. last but not least, i voted for this report because europol has become more transparent by making its consolidated annual activity report available to the general public, which i consider to be a very positive signal and worthy of being followed by all institutions working with public money.
in writing. ‒ following the examination of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, the european parliament has decided to grant discharge to the office in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the court's report shows that budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 improved considerably and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%. the resolution calls on europol to maintain as low a level as possible of committed appropriations carried over to the following year in order to better comply with its obligations of transparency and accountability. the office is also required to publish the exclusion criteria relating to eligibility to participate in the procurement procedure, the selection criteria relating to the ability to fulfil the provisions of a contract and all contracts awarded in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to fra.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european union agency for fundamental rights, which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) plays a key role in ensuring border security at a time when the european union is being tested by phenomena such as terrorism and the refugee crisis. i voted in favour of the report of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to frontex.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which present a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i have granted the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, following the assurances given by the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts and the legality of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to gsa.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this general discharge report 2014 on the european gnss agency calling for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on european gnss agency (gsa) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 as the court of auditors stated in its report that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the union contribution to the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, representing an increase of 81,55% compared to the 2013 budget. european satellite navigation programmes are of strategic importance and, given the range of applications of such programmes, the safety and security of the system is crucial.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the artemis joint undertaking calling for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on artemis joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of enhancing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years shall be eur 420 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the total financial contributions from the artemis member states should be at least 1,8 times the union financial contribution and the in-kind contribution of the research and development organisations participating in projects during the lifetime of the joint undertaking should be equal to or higher than the contribution of the public authorities. artemis and eniac have merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel joint technology initiative), which started in june 2014 and will continue for 10 years. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to clean sky joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the clean sky joint undertaking calling for a more vigilant commission position on discharge, calling on the commission to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before spending and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the clean sky joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the ecsel joint undertaking which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, asking it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on ecsel joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ as s&d itre coordinator, i would like to underline the importance of the ecsel joint undertaking established for the implementation of the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' for a period ending on 31 december 2024. the joint undertaking was established as the successor and replacement of the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking. public-private partnership in the field of electronic components and systems should combine the essential financial and technical means to keep pace with the complexity and the frenetic pace of innovation in this field. the members of the joint undertaking shall be the union, the member states and the countries associated to horizon 2020 on a voluntary basis, private associations representing their constituent companies and other organisations active in the field of electronic components and systems in the union. the joint undertaking should be open to new members. we support the joint undertaking's initiative to work with smaller contributors and to extend the coverage of grant evaluation to 90% of the grants awarded. the joint undertaking shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budget for the financial year.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the eniac joint undertaking which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, the project should be aligned with eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on eniac joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of developing and implementing a 'research agenda' to develop key competences in nanoelectronics for different application sectors. the joint undertaking was granted financial autonomy in july 2010. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years shall be eur 450 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking (artemis) have merged to create the 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started in june 2014 and will continue for 10 years. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, calling for a more vigilant discharge position from the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the european commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, the project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure, and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ according to the 2014 annual activity report, the budget execution at the end of the year for all sources of funding reached 98,48% for commitment appropriations and 74,52% for payment execution. in the absence of a clear separation between fp7 and horizon 2020 implementation information, these indicators do not guarantee a real assessment of performance. we invite the court of auditors to include in future reports information on the implementation of the budget for fp7 and, separately, the budget for horizon 2020. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, established by regulation in 2008, has demonstrated the potential of hydrogen as an energy carrier and fuel cells as energy converters to pave the way for clean systems that will reduce emissions, increase energy security and stimulate the economy.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to imi.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines calling for a more vigilant position on discharge by the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately, the european commission is responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget. the decision as to whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. it aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the use of eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, the project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (imi) discharge, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations can be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi2) joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the imi 2 joint undertaking replaced the imi joint undertaking in may 2014 with the aim of finalising the research activities of the seventh framework programme and extended the duration of the joint undertaking until 31 december 2024. the maximum contribution from the union to the imi joint undertaking for the 10-year period shall be eur 1 billion from the fp7 budget and the founding members shall contribute equally to the running costs, each amounting to no more than 4% of the total union contribution. we welcome the fact that the calls for proposals organised under fp7 for the period 2008-2013 resulted in the signing of 54 grant agreements totalling eur 897 000 000, representing 93% of the maximum eu contribution to the joint undertaking for its research activities. we ask the court to include in its future reports specific provisions on the evaluation procedure and the level of in-kind and cash contributions, presenting them for fp7 separately from those for horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report, as agreed in the committee, granting discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, which calls for a more vigilant discharge position of the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately, the european commission is responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget. the decision as to whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with the relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the use of eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, the project should be aligned with the eu policies, and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling the youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on the discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to more frequently check areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante checks, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations can be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ i backed this report as agreed in committee, granting discharge to sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the european union. it involves member states to which the commission delegates implementation tasks related to a significant part of the budget. each year, the discharge procedure ensures democratic ex-post control at political level, showing how the annual eu budget has been used. i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the sesar joint undertaking, which calls for a more vigilant position of the commission on discharge by asking it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
in writing. ‒ ultimately responsible for the execution of the european union’s budget is the commission. the decision on whether to grant discharge for the execution of the eu budget is made by the european parliament. the discharge procedure ensures ex-post democratic oversight at political level of how the eu’s annual budget has been used. its aim is to verify that the implementation was in accordance with relevant rules and principles of sound financial management. the report underlines that the eu funding must be efficient in advancing eu goals, the project should be aligned with the eu policies and better synergy should be achieved between all available resources in the fields, such as neighbourhood policy, external aid, and tackling youth unemployment. i have voted for this report on sesar joint undertaking discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank plays a key role in stimulating economic growth, but also in the balanced development of the internal market, actively contributing to strengthening social and economic cohesion by reducing territorial disparities. the 2014 annual reports of the european investment bank capture the institution's efforts in terms of employment and support for smes, with the eib setting up 285 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, thus creating 3,6 million jobs. the eib has also played a central role in supporting education, making significant investments for young people. i also welcome the continuing concerns about environmental protection and new instruments to support climate action. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the actions of the european investment bank have led to significant progress in terms of economic development, social development, environmental protection, its efforts having a positive impact on the quality of life of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report that, if adopted, will encourage the eib towards a more balanced lending strategy for all the member states. in particular, i would like to highlight the need to ensure consistency and complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds; the need to implement and further develop the efsi in close cooperation with the co-legislators, including through a timely and mandatory conclusion of the pending agreement between parliament and the eib; and the need to develop and deploy the necessary comprehensive approach in response to the severe challenges generated by the flow of migrants to europe, including enhanced operations in countries of origin of such flows as well as in countries which border directly on countries of origin. investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity have to be a priority. through these actions, we will promote youth employment, innovation and smes, enhance environmental sustainability and climate action, and finally, promote economic and social cohesion and convergence in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this 2014 european investment bank report, which ensures consistency and complementarity with investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that calls on the eib to ensure consistency and complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds; promote youth employment, innovation and smes; update the external dimension of eib interventions; enhance environmental sustainability and climate action; promote economic and social cohesion and convergence.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european investment bank (eib), the eu’s public bank and largest multilateral lending institution, contributed financing of eur 80.3 billion (including the eif – the european investment fund). the report takes account of the work of the eib on an annual basis. a more consistent way of complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds must be ensured, thus contributing to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. moreover, the eib shall prioritise investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity, especially by promoting youth employment, innovation and smes or enhancing environmental sustainability and climate action. i therefore welcome the motion for a resolution on the european investment bank (eib) – annual report 2014 which provides clear messages to be considered.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, internal armed conflicts have become the main cause of man-made humanitarian crises, with people increasingly exposed to violence and suffering. it is worrying that the number of terrorist attacks on humanitarian workers, especially on hospitals or even schools, has increased significantly, despite the fact that they are prohibited under international law, constituting either serious violations of the geneva convention or even war crimes under the rome statute. furthermore, international humanitarian law prohibits any attack on patients and medical personnel. the world humanitarian summit will be an opportunity to raise the alarm about serious violations of ihl and we want the union, with the support of the member states, to continue its commitment to protect civil society and ensure respect for human rights among citizens. i support this motion for a resolution because the ep, the commission and the council are the basic pillars of the fight against terrorism and must respond directly to terrorist challenges that violate the fundamental objectives of international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ the international community has in recent years faced a very high increase in the number of attacks on schools and hospitals in armed conflicts. there has been an increase in the cases of denial of humanitarian aid and access for humanitarian workers, execution of civilians and humanitarian personnel, which has led a number of organisations to temporarily suspend various forms of support to the affected population. i voted for the effective implementation by the eu and its member states of the eu guidelines on promoting respect for international humanitarian law and facilitating humanitarian response in affected areas. the un and the eu must promote campaigns to ensure that all actors meet their obligations to facilitate humanitarian assistance and protect civilians.
in writing. ‒ attacks on humanitarian workers are now ‘common currency’ and have reached alarming levels. i therefore support the question submitted to the hr/vp and the council to respond on how the relevant council bodies have implemented the eu guidelines on promoting compliance with international humanitarian law with regard to the conflicts in syria, yemen, afghanistan and other recent or current armed conflicts. the un security council has a clear role to play in ensuring respect for international law relevant to the protection of all humanitarian workers. therefore, it is fundamental that the eu and eu member states request the un security council to remind parties involved to comply with legal obligations and when they do not, to impose targeted measures on persistent violators. moreover, unsc must use all available tools to bring those responsible for such acts to justice.
in writing. ‒ the number of attacks on hospitals and schools is increasing, and the attacks on the hospital in kunduz (afghanistan) in october 2015 or razah (yemen) in january 2016 are only the latest. international humanitarian law, which is supposed to protect those not involved in the conflict, is being flagrantly violated. i call on the parties to the conflict to stop blocking humanitarian access and to stop causing direct or physical damage to schools and hospitals. any attack on hospitals or schools is prohibited under international law. i recall the position adopted in the eu guidelines on examining, where appropriate, the possibility of using the services of the international humanitarian fact-finding commission, which promotes compliance with international humanitarian law. i note that these services have never been used and therefore i urge member states to start an investigation into attacks on hospitals and schools and to activate this commission. what good is it to increase humanitarian aid when we don't even use what we have, like fact-finding services to eliminate impunity?
in writing. ‒ i have abstained in voting this motion for a resolution regarding the hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ attacks on hospitals and schools, and civilians in general, are increasingly taking place in conflict zones. although hospitals and infrastructure housing civilians are designated under international humanitarian law as being inviolable, compliance with this law continues to be ignored by conflict parties (state and non-state actors alike). i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it stresses the importance of strengthening accountability mechanisms such as the international criminal court in order to prevent impunity while it also identifies an urgent need to advance compliance with international humanitarian law, insisting in this regard on the essentiality of already established relevant eu guidelines and the possibility of instituting an international humanitarian fact-finding commission.
in writing. ‒ i support this joint motion for resolution as attacks on hospitals and schools are increasing in armed conflicts around the world, in countries such as syria, afghanistan, yemen, nigeria, kenya and others, and such attacks are in breach of international humanitarian law. this resolution could potentially lead to a reminder from the un security council that parties to an armed conflict need to comply with legal obligations and if they fail to do so, they will be faced with strict measures. the resolution also calls for the unsc to use all available measures to bring violators to justice.
in writing. ‒ taking into account regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 of the european parliament and of the council on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, and the fact that transparency is at the heart of citizens' trust in the vast majority of institutions within the union, it leads to awareness of the rights that are part of the legal system of the union and to knowledge of the decision-making process, including the correct application in practice of all administrative and legislative procedures. the right of access to documents is also a fundamental right recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the treaties and put into practice by regulation 1049/2001 and intended to guarantee it as easily as possible and at the same time to promote good administrative practices with regard to access to documents, thus ensuring democratic control of all the activities of the institutions and its compliance with the principles enshrined in the treaties. i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents in 2014-2015 because i believe that transparency is needed with regard to documents within the eu institutions and i also believe that transparency strengthens and contributes to the implementation of the principle of good administration.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that the council and the commission need to seriously engage with parliament to unblock the revision of european union law on access to documents. i am in favour of increased public access to documents and the proper implementation of eu law, while remaining pragmatic about the limits of transparency. the issue of transparency surrounding trilogues is particularly sensitive in the light of the investigation being carried out by the european ombudswoman into the functioning of trilogues. transparency can be increased through better reporting back to committee on the outcome and providing that certain documents relating to trilogues, such as agendas, minutes or summaries of outcomes, where they exist, should be publicly accessible. i welcome the fact that co-legislators have been given adequate ‘space to think’ and that the four-column table is deliberately not included in any list of documents which should be accessible to the public.
in writing. ‒ under article 17 of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, the union institutions are required to prepare an annual report on the granting of access to documents, in accordance with the aforementioned regulation. i voted in favour of this report on improving public access to documents and the correct implementation of union law and their transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that acknowledges that transparency needs improving, inter alia, via better reporting back to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the outcome and providing that certain documents relating to trilogues, such as agendas, minutes or summaries of outcomes should be publicly accessible.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that the transparency of public institutions is the key to a democratic society, where citizens have confidence in state institutions, precisely because they can always have access to the information and documents of these institutions, which they finance through taxes and fees. as regards the classification of certain documents, this procedure must be exceptional, covering a limited number of documents, on the basis of very clearly defined procedures and legislation. unfortunately, as this report also points out, the eu institutions are not sufficiently transparent. this is why i support the rapporteur's call on all institutions to make further efforts to make the decision-making process more transparent by publishing documents and ensuring that they are easily and quickly accessible.
in writing. ‒ institutions, agencies and other bodies of the european union still fail to take fully into account and to comply with the rules and the changes provided for in the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights when applying regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, especially as concerns participatory democracy. the actual public access to documents and the management of registers of documents need to be based on standards which adequately comply with articles 41 and 42 of the charter. it is a priority that eu institutions ensure transparency as regards access to documents in order for citizens to understand how and why decisions have been taken. i am therefore in favour of increased public access to documents and the proper implementation of european union law.
in writing. ‒ domestic workers and home care workers are an important element of european society, their services covering a wide range of areas, including care of homes or of dependent persons. professionalisation in these areas means giving workers in a particular sector labour and social protection rights that are equivalent to those held by employees working under legally regulated employment contracts, such as decent wages, a regulated work schedule, leave, health and safety at work. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there needs to be a uniform recognition at eu level of domestic and care work as real and valuable work. regulation of this occupational sector can also lead to a reduction in undeclared work and promote social inclusion. thus, by improving the quality of life of people who carry out these activities and by providing social protection, the risk of poverty, marginalisation and stigmatisation can be reduced. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the committee on women's rights and gender equality on homeworkers and carers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ today 2.5 million people work in the care and domestic work sector in the eu, 88% of them women. they work in public or private institutions, and private homes, without proper recognition or labour rights, and their work is very unevenly regulated across europe. i supported this report, which calls for recognition of the profession and value of domestic and care work, to reduce undeclared work in the sector and to provide for common rules by introducing a framework for professionalisation and guidelines. moreover, it asks the commission to propose a carers’ leave directive for non-professional carers (mostly family members providing care for the elderly, sick or other dependants). member states should ratify ilo convention n189 concerning decent work for domestic workers, promote regularisation schemes for irregular migrant workers, implement the anti-trafficking directive, and develop inspections in accordance with their national laws and the ilo convention. through the implementation of labour laws, we will be able to protect women domestic workers and free them from violence.
in writing. ‒ currently, in the eu, some 2.5 million workers work in the care and in-house sector in private institutions without proper recognition of the right to work, and the work they do is not regulated according to eu standards. i voted in favour of this report on the recognition of the profession and the value of domestic and care work to reduce undeclared work in this sector and to introduce a framework for professionalisation and guidance and the labour and health rights at work of domestic workers and carers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that will tackle several problems in the domestic work and care sector across member states such as illegality, non-coverage by labour law, harassment, migrants’ specific issues, trafficking, social exclusion, poverty, lack of perspectives, psychological burdens, lack of access to information, protection structures and trade unions.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this resolution as the lack of common rules and regulation regarding domestic work and care across the member states of the eu remains an obstacle towards the protection of the rights and social inclusion of, most often and in particular, women of minority migrant backgrounds working in these occupations. furthermore, when not regulated under labour law, domestic work and care undermine social welfare systems by creating shadow economies. there is therefore a clear need to identify best practices when it comes to regulation of domestic work and care across the eu, encouraging member states to take measures to implement laws that guarantee the fundamental rights and protection of domestic workers and carers, thus creating work conditions that empower them and facilitate a better quality of life.
in writing. ‒ according to ilo figures (2010), the domestic care sector employs 52 million people around the world, the majority of which are women. in the european union alone, 2.5 million people work in the domestic care sector and 88% of them are women. most of the domestic work is poorly regulated, without recognition, labour rights or employment benefits, such as maternity leave and set working hours. this report calls for the recognition of the importance of domestic and care work and demands the implementation of common rules and guidelines throughout the european union. moreover, the report asks for the reduction of undeclared work and the promotion of regularisation schemes for irregular migrant workers. i support this resolution because i strongly believe that domestic and care workers have the same social and employment rights as any other workers.
in writing. ‒ the information society, driven by information and communication technologies (ict), offers immense opportunities both for promoting direct democracy and for generating and distributing knowledge or developing and modernising the labour market. despite the many benefits introduced by digitalisation, there are difficulties such as: the integration and retention of women in the ict sector, the effects of gender stereotypes or the misuse of technology to threaten and intimidate women's activities. the gender pay gap is also evident in the pay gap, where wage gaps persist, with 54% of women in the ict sector in a lower-paid job than a man with the same skills. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european policies, the digital agenda and the digital single market strategy must consider developing mechanisms both to tackle gender gaps and to increase investment in social inclusion policies, to promote access to ict education for women and to respect the principle of equal pay, which is one of the fundamental pillars of social equity in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the digital age provides for the empowerment of women in the labour market, and in political and societal participation and has the potential to contribute to more gender equality. however it also bears risks, especially for women, in terms of precarious work, violence against women such as sexual exploitation, cyber-bullying, trafficking in human beings and hate speeches via internet, etc., and therefore needs appropriate monitoring and legal framework. the report emphasises the potential that the information society, ict and the internet have to promote women’s empowerment. its influence can help to improve the participation of women in political and other decision-making processes as well as the promotion of gender equality in the labour market. in order to do so, further education and training in ict, and investment and funding for female entrepreneurs in ict-related businesses are needed. the report also stresses the need to fight violence against women in the context of a digitalised world and notes that cyber-bullying, cyber-stalking, trafficking in human beings and hate speeches represent a serious threat to women and ultimately, their empowerment. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the potential that the information society, ict and the internet have in promoting women's empowerment. its influence can help to improve women's participation in political and other decision-making processes and promote gender equality in the labour market. this requires investment and funding for women entrepreneurs in ict enterprises. i voted in favour of this report for gender equality, the involvement of women in the labour market, combating violence against women in a digitalised world, online harassment, human trafficking and sexual exploitation of women.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that reiterates the potential that the information society, ict and the internet have to promote women’s empowerment. its influence can help to improve the participation of women in political and other decision-making processes as well as the promotion of gender equality in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ digitalisation represents an important platform for the economic, political and social empowerment of women and girls. the ict sector is growing and will continue to generate a significant pool of jobs in europe. as the resolution stresses, it is therefore imperative that stereotypes are deconstructed and girls and women are encouraged, for example through it focused education, to take up employment in the ict sector where they are currently significantly underrepresented in comparison to men. digitalisation is also promising in that it is a powerful medium through which to advance awareness of gender issues and inequality because of easy access to information. however, as the resolution rightly points out digitalisation can also be used in ways that are harmful to the equality and safety of women and girls. it is important that we work to prevent online violence and abuse against women and girls through different approaches and at various levels, strengthening online education and training but also prosecution of online offenders. it is for the above-stated reasons that i fully support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in europe, women represent only 19% of bosses in the ict and communications sectors and 9% of developers, which is unacceptable, since the ict and communications sectors can promote women’s empowerment in all sectors of the economy. digitalisation has a great impact on the labour market and it is an effective tool for the promotion of gender equality to the younger generations. thus, i believe that women need further education and training in ict, in order to take advantage of the full range of benefits that this sector of the economy provides. furthermore, i stress the need to fight violence and gender stereotypes against women in the digital area and i gave my full support to this resolution.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ruža tomašić, for her good cooperation in this report. the absorption of european funds has been a constant concern for all member states. in this respect, the european commission and the european parliament have sought to identify mechanisms and procedures to simplify this process, which member states complain is extremely cumbersome and difficult. i therefore welcome the identification of new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy 2014-2020 and the strengthening of the two mechanisms, namely integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. they will make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, but above all, and i stress above all, to creating new jobs. it is also very important to create a framework within which it is possible to combine the flows of funds with local initiatives, so that we are dealing with a strengthening of the capacity of communities to organise and implement projects, which take into account the needs of citizens and always from the bottom up. the implementation process requires the appropriate identification of resources and strategic advantages, both by local and regional authorities, and effective cooperation between rural and urban areas, with a view to strengthening regional competitiveness. participatory performance-based budgeting should aim at the efficiency of european funds so that there is as much added value as possible. the european parliament and the commission must, however, identify further the mechanisms by which member states are obliged to simplify their process of absorbing european funds and at the same time expressly prohibit them from creating additional conditionalities over and above european provisions.
mr president, mountain ranges in europe extend over the territory of several member states, including third countries. in these areas, mountain agriculture, forestry and tourism are important sectors for the identity and culture of mountain regions, making an important contribution to employment and the continued diversification of these regions' economies. it is beneficial for europe to develop multiple agricultural production, in relation to the development of tourism and environmental protection activities and an appropriate structuring of the food chain in mountain areas. i support the rapporteur's proposal to initiate a debate on the introduction of special labels for mountain food at european union level. mountain areas have significant potential for the production of high quality food, which will allow for better promotion and marketing of agricultural products and their inclusion among the general tourist products of a geographical area.
mr president, cohesion policy is not a new topic, it is an obligation in the treaty. however, within the framework of the general cohesion policy, the policy for the mountain region is a special one and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this report. in my country and in many other countries in the european union, we have mountain areas. mountain regions face specific terrain challenges, often with access to resources becoming more difficult, with additional transport costs, climate change, no human resources, no vocational training, no infrastructure. that is why i believe that special places need special policies, and i particularly appreciate and support the proposal to harmonize agricultural policies with those of tourism, with those of the development of traditional handicrafts and handicrafts. and i particularly support the rapporteur's proposal that both the member states and the commission should carry out periodic evaluations in order to conduct an appropriate funding policy. in the mountain areas, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises, manufacturing and tourism. attracting young people to this area is extremely important.
mr president, europe's mountain areas must be protected and supported in their development. they must therefore benefit from dedicated programmes and local initiatives to help the people in these areas must be integrated into a coherent and consistent strategy at european level. personally, i lived in the mountainous regions of romania, specifically in transylvania. and so i can give you the example of the apuseni mountains, a region of great beauty, with unrealized potential, with over half a million inhabitants. the priorities of this area are valid for all mountain areas: infrastructure development, access to education and health, job creation or attracting investment. the communities in european mountain areas are a tradition for our countries and deserve to be treated with respect and supported so that the lives of their citizens are no different from those of other european citizens. in this respect, cohesion policy plays an important role and this mechanism allows the gaps to be reduced. we need to strengthen cohesion policy to make it more accessible and to have a greater impact in all these areas.
in writing. in romania, the mountain region covers over 30% of the country's surface. this region is characterised by a slow but steady process of depopulation. the lack of adequate infrastructure, climatic conditions and limited employment opportunities make young people reluctant to stay in mountain areas. raising animals, logging, harvesting fruits from the forest are no longer the jobs that encourage young people to stay in these areas. the european union can therefore use the structural funds, and in particular the cohesion fund, to finance programmes supporting the development of mountain tourism, while at the same time providing infrastructure for access to mountain areas. only by combining traditional mountain crafts with the development of mountain infrastructure and tourism can a decent living be ensured for those who want to settle and live in mountain areas.
mr president, europe is talking about energy union and energy security. you talk a lot, you don't put it into practice at the same level. the best example is the connecting europe facility: energy funding has been cut by over 50%. energy security without resource security does not exist. security of supply without diversification cannot be achieved. nord stream does not fall under any security rule, either as a source, which has proven unpredictable, politicised and generating conditionalities, or as a market rule, resulting in a dangerous reliance on a single source. it's obvious that gazprom is trying to increase europe's dependence on russian gas, south stream, turkish stream, nord stream. europe's passivity in relation to attempts to diversify in the southern corridor is incomprehensible. is there a need for active, financial, political involvement for the supply of gas to the european union from the south-east from existing or new sources: azerbaijan, iran, the black sea, the mediterranean, and the gulf of aden. involvement on the ground, not just in the debates.
in writing. i believe that the nord stream 2 project must be analysed from three points of view. in view of the legality and compliance with the existing european legislation and the eu energy security strategy adopted in may 2014, it is necessary to ensure that european legislation is respected and applied in all segments of the nord stream 2 project and that it is not against the objectives of the energy union. as regards the commercial and capacity-building arguments, nord stream 2 favours the central and eastern european states. if some of the large consumers in western europe have certain financial advantages, this should not affect the interests or the degree of development of energy and transit capacity in the east. on a principle and value level, as long as the european union maintains economic sanctions against russia seeking to gain energy autonomy, nord stream 2 must contribute to the objective of diversification, not dependence on one supplier.
madam president, i will not repeat the arguments of my colleagues, which i accept, but i think, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be a big mistake for this debate to be, in fact, a label for the wrong behaviour of the european industry because the rule is: correct behaviour, respect for the principles of fishing, but to the extent that a non-governmental organisation and other disparate studies show some dysfunctions in what the commission and the european fisheries policy actually promote, i think it can only be regulated by improving control and by the need for somehow more appropriate labelling. these situations that we encounter, error or fraud - it is up to the controller to decide what they are - are not situations that are a rule in the behaviour of the fishing industry in the european union. of course, most of the problems have to be recognised as arising from imports and it is there that the commission will probably have to find a solution to have as much control as possible to meet the normal principles of respect for consumers and product quality. i think, commissioner, that this is a debate which demands, demands, more concern for the european consumer, and then not only you but also the commissioner for consumer protection must give an answer.
in writing. recently, an ngo published a report on irregularities in the labelling of fish and seafood in brussels. unfortunately, this problem is found even in the european parliament's restaurants. more transparency is needed within food chains and in the case of fish, being a perishable product, traceability is essential to guarantee food safety. there are many irregularities within the ep, the degree of food waste is absolutely outrageous, and the fact that there is no traceability of fish products consumed in our own institution should make us seriously question the management within the parliament. i hope that both the european commission and the belgian government will take this matter seriously and resolve it as soon as possible.
the next item is the joint debate on the fisheries partnership agreements: recommendation of mr jarosław wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia (13015/2015 c8-0402/2015 2015/0224nle)) (a8-0142/2016) and recommendation of mr gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years (12715/2015 c8-0402/2015 2015/0224nle)) (a8-0224/2016).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets.– mr president, the fisheries agreement between the european union and liberia will certainly provide more opportunities and predictability for eu vessels and also for the industry in general. from the perspective of the committee on budgets i have to say that the financial impact of this agreement upon the budget of the european union will be eur 3.25 million for the five years in which the agreement will be applied. besides the access of eu vessels to liberian fisheries resources, it is very important to note, as the rapporteur has also done, that half of the total contribution will be devoted to supporting the implementation of liberia’s sectoral fisheries policy. in a country where approximately half of the population lives on the coastline, and where the fisheries sector is an essential part of the economy, it is very important to achieve the objective of developing responsible and sustainable fishing activities while ensuring that the sector reaches its full potential. a key element, in my opinion, will be the monitoring of the implementation of these measures in order to make sure that the money is well spent, that it achieves its purpose, and that no fraud with eu funds takes place on the ground.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the liberia agreement is a beneficial agreement for both the european union and liberia. i would like to stress a few things that i think are important in this agreement. firstly, the way in which fishing authorisations are granted to union vessels, on the basis of this agreement alone, to the exclusion of private or bilateral ones, i believe will give a chance to comply with the common fisheries policy and will help in particular to combat illegal fishing, where in recent years liberia has made significant progress. i believe that the funds that the union will allocate to liberia in this area will be spent for the benefit of liberian industry and will bring an addition to this industry from which a large part of the population lives. i also welcomed the way in which the european commission will involve parliament in the agreement, we will be kept informed of the progress of this agreement, it ensures transparency and i believe that it is the only way in which cooperation between parliament and the commission in these agreements will be not a formal one but an effective one.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches on important political issues.
mr president, the european commission has proposed visa liberalisation for georgian citizens travelling to the eu in recent months. the european commission's proposal follows a careful assessment of the progress made by the georgian state in implementing the reform measures needed to get to this point. the progress made by georgia in recent years has been noted by the european institutions and i believe that the european parliament and the governments of the member states should support the european commission's proposal. romania in particular has been and is a supporter of georgia's european aspirations, in particular for the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement and the visa liberalisation action plan. moreover, most european states have been able to note the positive developments in georgia and its determination to meet the criteria required by the european institutions. i understand the aspirations and expectations of the georgian people at this moment.
mr president, i would like to refer in my statement to the issue of the return of property in romania. i have chosen this topic because recently a hungarian mep has done serious damage to his image by accusing romania of discriminating against the hungarian minority and the reformed church. i would like to inform the european parliament that romania, like the other former communist countries, has addressed the issue of restitution after 1990. it was and is obviously a difficult process, because according to some estimates, in january 1990 there were about three million people in my country who were tenants in nationalized properties. we can't play with people's lives, especially since many of them were elderly. it is true that the procedure was cumbersome and because many heirs presented incomplete documents, but there is no evidence, none, that the principle of ethnicity or religion was applied in the restitution process, as the reformed church claimed. on the contrary, i recently saw in a small town in aiud how the property returned to the reformed church endangered the lives of six families, with ten minors, by cutting off the electricity. i think the best evidence that romania has not discriminated against any minority is the decisions of the european court of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our decision on the trade relationship with china will affect hundreds of thousands of european citizens, strategic industrial sectors - the steel industry, first of all - and the future of our relationship with china, which is the european union's strategic partner. automatic recognition of china's market economy status is not a viable option, therefore we ask the european commission to identify viable trade defence instruments that can be applied to ensure the protection of the steel industry, other industrial sectors against unfair competition and dumping. we believe that dialogue with china and other wto partners will lead to identifying the best solutions in the mutual interest of the two strategic partners, europe and china. but we owe it to our citizens to secure the future of european industrial workers, the steel industry and vulnerable european companies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union must be pragmatic in its approach to the provisions of the protocol on china's accession to the world trade organisation, which expires in december. we all know that our main objective is to preserve the interests of european companies and jobs in europe, without jeopardising the basic rules of the wto and our strategic relations with china. as i said before, the real question here is not whether or not to grant china market economy status. it should be clear that the expiry of the provisions of the protocol only concerns the way in which the anti-dumping measures are calculated. the correct response must be not automatic recognition or economic confrontation, but the urgent unblocking of trade defence (tdi) modernisation. i call on the council and the european commission to take responsibility and allow for the urgent adoption of a new set of trade defence instruments. i would like to end by stressing the importance of the results of the impact study launched by the european commission, as it is the only credible assessment of the consequences. i would also say this: time, not china, is now our main adversary, and the response of the council, which was the problem, is essential.
mr president, commissioner, you started your debate by saying 'china is not a market economy' and everyone here in the chamber said the same thing. the problem is that it's not enough to say it's not a market economy, we have to act. i think it was a big mistake. i come from the textile industry, and in 2005, i asked the commission, at that time, to have measures to protect the european industry. we are at the intersection of three great powers: china, the united states and russia. ttip is just as dangerous, because america has "buy america". we do not have a buy europe. china has subsidies, we don't have subsidies. the question that now arises, and is crucial for our future, is: 'what measures are we taking now to protect the industry?' because right now, as we speak, the european union market is being invaded by products from china without giving it market economy status. the mistake must be corrected and the council and the commission have a historic obligation to find measures to protect european industry. otherwise, the 22 million unemployed will not be able to find jobs in our country.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. my question is: what is the way forward for europe? to choose realpolitik or to respect the values and principles on which this union is based?
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with what you said. but i want to ask you: don't you think that in order to create new jobs and a sustainable economy and, of course, jobs for young people, we should have a different policy for innovation and research? do you not think that young people are innovative and would need support in this area?
thank you, madam president, and special thanks for giving us all the opportunity to speak. commissioner, i appreciate what you said and the fact that you were with us today. i would have preferred it to have been the commissioner responsible for the internal market. for growth and jobs for young people, we need a europe rich in skills. we need economic development and a reindustrialisation strategy to create quality jobs. i am glad that we are discussing two very important topics at the same time today. the trade defence measures discussed in the first point today can create new job opportunities for young people. what is needed is an education policy, vocational education, geared to the needs of the local economy. we need a new policy to support innovation and research, where young people can excel, but we also need a new vision of tax policy for start-ups, for poor places, where investors need support to create jobs. otherwise, we will be helpless to see the economic situation and the lives of young people deteriorate. we need to educate young people to prefer work to welfare and we want incentives for investors.
madam president, i had originally prepared a classic one-minute speech but, hearing certain speeches, i could not resist. the council blames the commission, the commission blames the member states, and we in the european parliament are unfortunately not heard enough. my dear colleagues, we are talking about seven million unemployed young people. seven million, in the context of the need for workers in the digital market. i refuse to let my generation become another lost generation. poor management of european funds, as is the case in romania, currently under the current government, must not become a reason for decreasing budget allocations for young people. the youth guarantee must continue and the commission must ensure that it is implemented ensure, not monitor. young europeans, young people in my country, romania, have confidence in europe and have legitimate expectations that we will solve them. to do this, it takes everyone, because they are our young people. we need more investment in education, in developing new skills, in the new digital economy. we need solutions now, at european level.
madam president, unfortunately, despite the increase in employment rates across europe, young people still experience difficulties in getting access to the labour market. approximately 20% of young people under the age of 24 are currently not in education, employment or training – some of them for a long time. today, young people represent the group most exposed to social exclusion in europe; their long-term disengagement from the labour market could have severe consequences both for them and for the economy and society as a whole. we cannot stand idle when faced with this enormous challenge; we must make sure that our education systems adequately prepare them for professional life and offer them vocational support connected to the needs of the labour market, and that innovation and youth entrepreneurship are given the emphasis they deserve.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the union aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009. this proposal does not change the content of the acts, but only changes their form so that they are more accessible to citizens. it is important that the citizen is provided with a favourable framework for exercising the rights conferred on him by those acts. this requires greater clarity and transparency of the legal provisions so that these acts become accessible and serve the interests of citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that codification of legislation is necessary to improve citizens' understanding of the provisions and to ensure the conditions for citizens' involvement.
in writing. ‒ the proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is necessary for member states to monitor and report to the commission on imports of products under examination or measures and on the amount of duties levied under eu law, in order to ensure the correct application of measures. in addition, it is important to give the commission the possibility to request member states to provide it, subject to confidentiality rules, with information to be used for monitoring price undertakings and verifying the effectiveness of the measures in force. this report is also necessary to ensure fair competition in the internal market and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that contains a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance regarding protection against subsidised imports from countries that are not members of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that protection against subsidised imports from non-eu countries is absolutely necessary for the sustainable development of the european community and for ensuring fair competition on the market. in this respect, the report voted today reiterates the rules adopted in 2009, the latter being grouped together, a change of form necessary for the codification operation. last but not least, i am in favour of the provisions of this report as i believe its most important role is to protect and encourage domestic production and thus the economic development of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented development of international trade in recent decades has generated an abundance of goods on world markets. this is in favour of consumers, who thus have a wide range of products to purchase. however, the commercial activity must be carried out within a certain regulatory framework, which offers all the agents involved equal conditions to promote their products on certain foreign markets. the european union is an integrated market which operates on the principles of a free market, but which has made it a priority to protect commercial agents in the member states against unfair competition from agents in third countries. thus, when a number of third-country traders benefit from subsidies from that state, they acquire an unnatural advantage over european traders. in these circumstances, the european institutions can and must impose a series of compensatory measures, through common customs duties, to balance the situation. the text makes minor changes to existing european rules in this area, which provide the necessary protection for the member states. i therefore support its adoption in this form.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the union aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009. this proposal does not change the content of the acts, but only changes their form so that they are more accessible to citizens. it is important that the citizen is provided with a favourable framework for exercising the rights conferred on him by those acts. codification of legislation is needed to provide a better understanding of the provisions by citizens and to ensure the basis for citizen engagement. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for greater clarity and transparency in the legal provisions so that these acts become accessible and serve the interests of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that contains a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance regarding the protection against dumped imports from countries that are not members of the european union.
in writing. ‒ making imports allows european consumers to benefit from products they would not have had access to if they had relied solely on domestic production. in this respect, the presence on the european market of products from third countries all over the world is a significant advantage. however, in situations where certain products of this type are made at very low (dumped) prices, which jeopardise the development of similar european sectors (and which cannot compete with these low prices), endangering the jobs of workers in the member states, measures are required to balance the situation by introducing proportionate customs duties. this document updates existing european regulations, which are sufficient to maintain a balanced situation at union level without substantial changes. i therefore support the adoption of this report in its current form.
in writing. ‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia lays the foundations for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone. there are a number of fisheries partnership agreements signed by the union and third countries through which the eu provides technical and financial assistance in exchange for fishing rights for a range of fish stocks from a particular economic area of the partner country. the main purpose of this agreement is to provide fishing opportunities for union vessels in the liberian fishing zone, taking into account the standards of environmental protection, conservation and sound management of fish stocks. the union will also provide financial support for the development of sectoral policy in the fisheries sector. i spoke in favour of this partnership agreement because it promotes a partnership framework that strengthens the links between the union and liberia, favouring the development of sustainable fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has signed a number of financial and technical assistance agreements for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks. i voted for cooperation between the european union and liberia. eu vessels can fish 6 500 tonnes of tuna per year against a total contribution of €3.25 million over five years.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this new agreement and protocol. failure to act by the eu would allow the emergence of private agreements which would not guarantee sustainable fisheries. the liberian authorities undertake not to give more favourable conditions than those accorded under this agreement to other foreign fleets operating in the liberian fishing zone. these conditions relate to the conservation, development and management of resources, financial arrangements, fees and rights relating to the issuing of fishing authorisations. in this regard, we particularly welcome the fact that liberia renders public any agreement authorising foreign fleets to fish in the waters under its jurisdiction. the protocol takes into account the priorities of the reformed cfp and its external dimension. i particularly welcome the inclusion of a human rights clause as well as ilo provisions on fundamental principles and rights at work. sectoral support will contribute to the development of the country’s fisheries infrastructure, to the capacity-building of the liberian fisheries authorities, and encourage local employment. although measures for the protection of the marine environment as well as observer coverage (15%) could be more ambitious, i fully support this very important sfpa.
in writing. ‒ this is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia. it will reinforce cooperation in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. moreover, it will help the country to improve its fisheries monitoring and control, and the development of its fishing sector as well.
in writing. ‒ fisheries partnership agreements represent an understanding where the eu offers financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights. i have voted for this report that will grant the european union’s distant water fishing fleets access to the gulf of guinea’s tropical tuna. this agreement will strengthen cooperation between the eu and liberia as well as with other west african countries where important tuna fishing zones are located.
in writing. ‒ this eu-liberia partnership agreement encourages closer economic cooperation between the two parties in the field of the fishing industry and related activities. the agreement establishes the principles, rules and procedures governing the conditions under which union vessels may engage in fishing activities in the liberian fishing zone and the economic, financial, technical and scientific cooperation in the fisheries sector. the actions undertaken shall take into account the promotion of sustainable fishing in liberian fishing areas and the development of the liberian fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ ocean fishing is one of the european union's main sources of food. it may be deployed both in the territorial waters of the member states and in the territorial waters of third countries. to this end, the union shall conclude fisheries partnership agreements with those states, which take into account the provisions of the common fisheries policy. at the end of last year, a similar agreement was signed with liberia, the first such document signed with the west african country. the agreement provides for the eu to allocate a total of eur 3.25 million over the next five years to grant the permission to catch 6 500 tonnes per year, subject to compliance with european standards of transparency, employment and full compliance with the standards of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the food and agriculture organisation (fao). the agreement will be beneficial to both parties, allowing the liberian side to develop port infrastructure, combat illegal fishing, sustainably develop the fishing sector and economy affected by the civil war and the ebola epidemic and enhance scientific cooperation between the two sides. in conclusion, i support the adoption of this document.
in writing. ‒ since 1989, there have been a number of fisheries agreements with mauritania, which have allowed european vessels to fish in its waters. this new agreement comes with a number of improvements, which close the gaps in the previous protocol. this has helped a number of fleet fishing areas, including those for seafood, to increase fishing opportunities. the new protocol also sought to clarify the methodology for applying the rule requiring european vessels to donate 2% of their pelagic catches to disadvantaged persons. in addition, the focus is on increasing transparency, with mauritania committing to publish all public and private contracts with third countries. i voted in favour of this partnership agreement because i believe that mauritania's new commitments lay the foundations for strengthening a partnership based on transparency, mutual trust and non-discrimination between the european fleet and other foreign fleets.
in writing. ‒ european vessels have been fishing in mauritian waters since 1989. the agreement with that country is an example for the agreements concluded by the european union with other third countries. i voted to increase the length of the protocol to four years. this will lead to greater stability for the fleet fishing in mauritania.
in writing. ‒ mauritania is one of the poorest, least developed countries in the world, ranking 161 out of 187 on the human development index 2014. 42% of the population is living below the poverty line (usaid). the economy remains weak. the economy is therefore centred on mining activity and fisheries. support for the development of the sectorial fisheries policy of the islamic republic of mauritania amounts to eur 4 125 000 per year. this support meets the aims of national fishing policy and in particular the needs of mauritania as regards supporting scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries monitoring, protecting the environment and development infrastructure. the increase in support for the local mauritanian fishing sector demonstrates the european union’s resolve to bolster the development of the fleets in countries with which it has signed agreements, and its desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that it advocates in its fisheries policy. some 30% of the population (42.9% of youths) remain unemployed. the protocol’s requirement to hire mauritanian fishermen (60% of the crew for shrimp vessels and pelagic trawlers) is therefore welcomed. i welcome this agreement and protocol.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is in line with the reformed cfp. we welcome the new commitments given by mauritania in relation to transparency and priority access for the european fleet. i believe that the agreement with mauritania should serve as an example for future agreements signed by the european union with other third countries.
in writing. ‒ fisheries partnership agreements represent an understanding where the eu offers financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights. i have voted for this report that will grant the european union’s fishing fleets access to mauritanian waters for a period of four years through the newly installed protocol on 10 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the new eu-mauritania fisheries agreement addresses some of the shortcomings of the previous protocol. in order to increase transparency, mauritania undertakes to publish all public or private contracts with third countries and also to grant preferential access to its surplus to the eu fleet. the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to this country to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone is eur 55 million per year, compared to eur 67 million under the previous protocol. in addition, financial assistance of eur 16,5 million is provided for the duration of the agreement (eur 4,125 million per year, as opposed to eur 3 million under the previous protocol) to promote sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in marine protected areas and coastal areas. thus, sectoral support was increased to improve european assistance for the implementation of the new sectoral strategy on the sustainable development of fisheries in this country. i voted in favour of the agreement with mauritania, which should be an example for the agreements concluded by the european union with other third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because it approves the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania, which is a normal course of action. we are looking at a mutually beneficial agreement, which is an integral part of the new fisheries agreements between the eu and various third countries. under this agreement, the eu will pay around €55 million a year for four years for the opportunity to fish 287 500 tonnes of fish that will reach the european market. it is also important to note that the funds paid by the eu will help the mauritanian fishing industry and support the authorities' fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and the obligation for eu vessels to employ 60% of mauritanian personnel will help local communities and support the increase in the specialisation of the workforce.
in writing. ‒ the signing of fisheries partnership agreements between the eu and third countries has become a priority of the common fisheries policy in recent years. these agreements are intended, in addition to increasing the union's marine food resources, to contribute to the sustainable development of this sector worldwide and to economic assistance to developing countries. mauritania is one of the poorest countries in the world, with an alarming unemployment rate (30%), especially among young people (43%), where fishing accounts for a large proportion of the economy (5-10%). the eu has had fisheries agreements with this country since 1989. in july 2015, a new four-year agreement was concluded, allowing eu vessels access to fish for cephalopods, crustaceans, tuna and pelagic species in exchange for the eu contribution of eur 55 million, to which is added eur 16,5 million for the sustainable development of the mauritanian fisheries sector and the protection of the environment. the agreement is conditional on compliance with european standards of transparency and the involvement of a majority indigenous workforce (60%), which will lead to the development of the local economy. i therefore support the adoption of this document.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement with korea on a global civil satellite navigation system was negotiated between the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other, and signed on 9 september 2006. the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors such as transport, fleet management, science, surveying. cooperation in this field can only lead to the development of complex satellite navigation systems for civil use, based on an exchange of information and transparency. the republic of korea has distinguished itself over the years in the field of space technology and applications, investing substantially in this sector. a cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system brings significant benefits to both parties, strengthening their partnership, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european commission negotiated a cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the republic of korea is a country with capabilities in space technology and applications and this is an agreement from which both parties can win.
in writing. ‒ this is an important agreement. as one of the leading countries in the field of electronic devices, the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. this agreement seeks to enhance cooperation activities between the european community along with its member states and the republic of korea in terms of satellite navigation and navigation timing. moreover, the agreement ensures that south korea gives full support in all key aspects of the galileo programme such as standards, certification or frequency allocation.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this report, part of the framework agreement between the european union on the one part and the republic of korea on the other, following the evaluation made by my political group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider the eu-republic of korea global navigation satellite system cooperation agreement to be mutually beneficial. the investments made by the republic of korea and the eu in the research and development of civil satellite navigation systems have considerably improved our daily lives, leading to the widespread use of these systems in areas such as navigation, transport, science and geodesy. in my view, cooperation between the two parties to develop new systems and improve existing ones will have a direct positive effect on the lives of european citizens.
madam president, the 2008 treaty of lisbon establishes territorial cohesion as one of the main objectives of the union. territorial cohesion must be supported by cohesion policy and structural funds, in particular funds, to avoid territorial and demographic disparities, with a view to integration and development in the member states of the european union. the 2014-2020 programming period introduces the tools to strengthen cooperation between public and private actors, as well as policies for more sustainable urban development. in europe, growth can be generated by networks between major agglomerations and, in the absence of european public intervention, countries tend to prioritise investment in connections to the heart of europe over the suburbs. this is why policies aiming at greater territorial cohesion, especially in romania, where 47% of the population lives in rural areas, are a form of financing so that people remain connected to the territory, encouraging income generation, development and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy, namely integrated territorial investment and community-led local development, were developed in response to the multiple challenges facing member states, with an integrated and territorial approach being desired. the dlrc is a particularly important tool for local communities, as it follows a bottom-up approach, placing accountability to the community through local action groups. iti is also a valuable tool as it tracks the region's situation on the ground, making a direct contribution to improving the untapped potential of the area. these tools can strengthen community capacity and stimulate innovation by encouraging entrepreneurship. i believe that both the dlrc and iti need to play an even more important role in cohesion policy, with the need for active involvement of both local authorities and civil society in the territorial development strategy. i spoke in favour of the new instruments because i believe that they can be used to achieve community development in the interests of citizens, with their active participation.
in writing. ‒ eu cohesion policy has a key role to play in promoting the development of the union's regions, offering tangible solutions that could not be solved by investing at national, regional or local level alone. given the challenges at regional level, cohesion policy 2014-2020 plays a crucial role in the shift towards investing in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, providing solutions by supporting activities that tackle climate change, promote more efficient energy use and create new jobs for young people. at the same time, the new iti and dlrc territorial development instruments will provide the prerequisites for sustainable and balanced growth in disadvantaged areas. i support this report because, while communities will be encouraged to work together to identify their own development needs and resources neutralized using the dlrc strategy, iti gives member states both flexibility in the development of operational programmes and efficiency in the implementation of integrated actions through simplified funding. these two new instruments can play an important role in adapting to demographic change and reversing development imbalances between regions.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion has been recognised as a fundamental objective of the eu and enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in this context, the new generation of cohesion policies for 2014-2020 places greater emphasis on integrated and reality-based approaches to boost economic, social and territorial cohesion. local actors often lack the capacity to develop and implement development strategies that are relevant to their territory. they need support, both at national and union level. this is particularly important for smaller towns and disadvantaged areas. i voted for the use of multi-fund funding opportunities to achieve a truly integrated approach to cohesion policy measures.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is one of the most pressing problems facing a large number of member states. in this context, i believe that local and territorial development strategies must include among their top priorities the fight against youth unemployment, taking into account local and regional specificities, and the promotion of public-private partnerships with the development of vocational training programmes appropriate to adapt to developments on the labour market.
in writing. ‒ two tools – community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investments (iti) – are the new instruments in the current cohesion policy for this purpose. it is expected that around 5% of the cohesion policy budget will be used for these tools. it is still too early to evaluate the effectiveness of these tools, however, some challenges can already be identified, such as fear for increase of local influence in certain member states, limited budget and the integration of multiple funds. the main problems identified in the report concern the lack of trust between the different levels of government. furthermore, the often weak capacity of local governments to develop and implement strategies for their territory needs to be mentioned. these tools should help the latter. the current cohesion policy allows for a multi-fund approach which seeks an integrated use of different cohesion policy funds, although this may add to the complexity of the usage. furthermore, difficult administrative procedures and additional, (unnecessary) legal requirements imposed by member states (‘gold plating’) may add further complexity to it. this is an issue which needs to be looked at, possibly by the high level group of independent experts on monitoring simplification for beneficiaries of the esi funds, recently established by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because territorial cohesion, enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is a fundamental objective of the eu. the new generation of cohesion policies for the 2014-2020 programming period places greater emphasis on the use of integrated and reality-based approaches to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion. two new instruments have been introduced under the european structural and investment funds in the 2014-2020 programming period to meet the territorial cohesion objective: local development with community responsibility (ldcr) and integrated territorial investment (iti). the contributions of local authorities are essential to the achievement of cohesion policy objectives but unfortunately in many member states there is a lack of trust between the different levels of governance when it comes to the implementation of the dlrc and iti and this can be a serious problem that can seriously affect the implementation of the territorial approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it considers youth unemployment to be the most pressing issue for the member states, together with smes’ lack of financing, and stresses that local and territorial development strategies have to address these issues as one of their priorities. the report points out to the commission that more attention needs to be paid, in the review of that strategy and of the mff, to regional and local contexts, and to the specific circumstances of the areas concerned. moreover, improved coordination between the commission, the member states and the regions with regard to guidance for these tools is a must.
in writing. ‒ one of the fundamental objectives of the european union is territorial cohesion. i have voted for this report that will bring a new tool to be used at sub-regional level based on the leader experience of community-led local development. the new tools can also be used for delivering the sustainable urban development objective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment and community-led local development. integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (cld) are innovative cohesion policy instruments that some member states will implement in this form for the first time and can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, quality local jobs, sustainable development and the europe 2020 objectives. we call for the development of strategies in the early stages of the implementation process together with regional and local actors, in particular in terms of specific and specialised training, technical and financial support, as a result of a real partnership between regions, member states and the eu. while measures adopted under these instruments should take into account the priorities of local actors, they should be aligned with the overall objectives of operational programmes, as well as with other national, regional and local development strategies and smart specialisation strategies, allowing for flexibility.
in writing. ‒ decentralisation of decision-making to regional and local actors is central to strengthening the objectives of the cohesion policy. i support this resolution and the creation of the integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld) tools as they will allow local stakeholders, well informed about the specific regional or local needs of their communities, to participate for example in making decisions on how best to use funds to create high-quality jobs to spur growth and ensure a more even economic and social development across eu regions in line with the objectives of the cohesion policy for 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy for 2014-2020 places a strong emphasis on the economic and social dimension. it will use two new instruments to this end: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). in this context, the weak capacity of local administrations to develop and implement strategies for their territory is worth mentioning. these instruments are intended to improve the situation, in particular by facilitating the integrated use of several funds under cohesion policy. for that reason, the proposal receives my support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the new territorial development instruments in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the rapporteur welcomes the approach, which considers that the bottom-up approach and the participation of local actors are essential for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. it notes that in a number of member states there is a lack of trust between the different levels of governance when it comes to the implementation of the community-led local development instrument and the instrument for integrated territorial investment. this is an important issue that needs to be addressed as it can seriously affect the implementation of the territorial approach.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics aims to amend regulation (ec) no 184/2005 in order to align it to the new institutional context. it is therefore desirable to identify the powers conferred on the commission and to implement the procedures for adopting measures on the basis of those powers. the powers referred to are those for adopting delegated acts in situations where, for reasons related to economic and technical changes, updating of data requirements is necessary. it is also proposed to confer powers on the commission to adopt common quality standards and to harmonise the content and periodicity of quality reports. as regards the european statistical system, the commission has concrete proposals to improve the partnership within this system, to make the related activities more efficient. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission should be given powers to update data requirements and to ensure that they are adapted to the new institutional context.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is part of the eu's overall framework for monitoring the evolution of the economic situation in each member state and in the union as a whole. the development of reliable statistics in these areas is particularly necessary to monitor certain key elements, such as financial flows within the eu but also outside its borders. these statistics are thus useful to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are consistent with the eu's general guidelines. i voted for greater transparency of this data and for turning this statistics into a tool for economic policy decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i support the call on the commission to improve the quality of the data (article 4) and for a delegated act on enhanced foreign direct investment statistics, with improved granularity and transparency: this will allow for more detailed analysis of flows that are essential to a better understanding of the functioning of globalised economies. the revised text will allow us to better understand whether a foreign direct investment is leading to real job creation and greenfield investments or is just a complex legal construction for channelling funds in an opaque way (recitals 6, 16, 17, article 1) and to start compiling fdi data based on an ‘ultimate ownership concept’ (article 5(2)-(3)). this is also topical in view of the ongoing tax evasion scandals. eurostat has also agreed to step up efforts to enhance its website for a more user-friendly presentation of the data (recital 1). bad quality statistics played an important role in 2008 financial crisis. therefore, it is crucial to further harmonise statistics collection in the eu and improve the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. bad quality statistics played an important role in the financial crisis. we should have a harmonised statistics collection in the eu and an improvement of the quality of the data collected.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s framework that monitors the economic development in each member state also consists of european commission regulation no 184/2005 concerning statistics for balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi). i have voted for this report that amongst others, will increase transparency.
in writing. ‒ high-quality statistical information is a fundamental public good for academic research and informed public policy-making. community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment are essential for the development of sound economic forecasts and informed economic policy-making. member states should provide the data necessary to produce community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment in a timely manner, in an appropriate form and of the required quality. this proposal aims at harmonising community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. this is important to better anticipate future crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it brings the necessary changes to regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign services, which are tools for monitoring the economic situation in each member state and in the union as a whole. those amendments were necessary to ensure the alignment of that regulation with the provisions of the tfeu, while allowing for the revision of the data collection methods necessary for good transparency. it is very important that these statistics are adapted to the reality and needs of the member states and the eu in order to provide a correct view of the economic situation for economic policy decisions.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of the global financial crisis in 2008 has put the european union in the position of having to identify new approaches to ensure that such phenomena are avoided in the future. such instruments include the adoption of a new way of producing economic statistics in an integrated manner at european level. these statistics must be produced in a high-quality manner, in particular with regard to foreign direct investment (fdi), balance of payments and international trade in services flows. in particular, consideration should be given to how isd translates into sustainable job creation and real economic growth. improving these statistics will also indirectly contribute to tackling tax evasion affecting member states today. this will enable eurostat to provide statistics that are as close as possible to the reality on the ground, thus enabling appropriate policies to be adopted in the areas concerned. i believe that this initiative will help to improve the lives of european citizens, which is why i support this document.
in writing. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics is part of the overall eu framework which allows the monitoring of the evolution of the economic situation in each member state and in the union as a whole. i voted for the ep report on this regulation because the production of reliable statistics in these areas is particularly necessary to monitor certain key elements, such as the evolution of current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu.
madam president, i voted for this report because it is in romania's interest that the union invests in the mountain regions and the carpathian mountains, which are in romania, and that is because we want to finance these regions and european money for their development and also for environmental protection. at the moment, the european commission has no agenda for these mountain areas, including the carpathians, and therefore no strategy. that's why i'm asking them to make such a strategy as soon as possible, precisely so that we can access these funds and develop the mountain regions. it's also very important to link this to jobs, because we talk about jobs all the time. we cannot create jobs if we do not also develop and invest in such regions, where, even if there is less population, there can be tourism or other projects or industries.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy in mountain regions is a subject that has been of constant concern to me, given the importance of these areas both for romania and for all member states. these regions cover over 30% of the eu territory and contribute to the economic development of the countries, mainly through their specific characteristics, namely the diversity of renewable energy sources. these mountain areas have a positive impact in terms of combating climate change and conserving and protecting the ecosystems of these territories. however, it cannot be overlooked that these mountain areas have been neglected, in particular because of the infrastructure and the additional costs of their isolation. as a result, in the absence of investment, many mountain regions face depopulation and population ageing due to extreme conditions and their peripheral nature, which affects the natural cycle of generations and leads to a reduction in social standards and quality of life. this leads to increased unemployment, social exclusion and population migration. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i am confident that this policy of mountain cohesion will achieve better socioeconomic and territorial cohesion, ensuring the sustainable economic development of the mountains.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the interest in the eu's mountain areas, as they cover 30% of the union's territory. the policy of supporting disadvantaged regions must remain the cornerstone of cohesion policy and, in this regard, i support the development of an 'agenda for the eu's mountain regions' on areas of interest in this area. i propose an integrated and flexible approach to development and job creation in the green economy, also taking into account new activities in areas such as mountain farming, sustainable tourism, handicrafts, sustainable forestry activities and renewable energy technologies. at the same time, for this area of interest, i believe that the focus on technology development (e.g. the internet) must be balanced with the maintenance of investment in traditional development policies, the lack of access to these services being an additional reason for depopulation of the area. i also consider increasing investment in infrastructure a priority. each region of the member states must be made the most of for a new europe, ready to meet the expectations of european citizens. for sustainable growth we need strong and developing regions.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions in eu member states do not receive much attention in cohesion policies. the difficulty of investing in mountains due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs involved in the isolation of these regions makes these areas forgotten. the rich and diverse natural resources of mountain areas can lead to job creation, to improve the employment situation in the eu. i voted for better social, economic and territorial cohesion by exploiting the advantages of mountain regions.
in writing. ‒ given that farms in mountain areas have not benefited from and do not benefit from a system of agricultural vocational training adapted to mountain specificity, i consider it necessary to initiate a process of analysis at european level with a view to adopting such a system of agricultural vocational training adapted to mountain specificity within the framework of the macro-regional strategy for the alpine areas.
in writing. ‒ mountainous regions in the eu were rarely in the focus of cohesion policy. this report emphasizes how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change. the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu’s renewable energy targets. at the same time, poverty and social exclusion within less developed mountainous regions can be reduced with the help of eu funds. mountainous regions can also be a leading force in sustainable growth within the eu, as centres of green growth. on the other hand, this report calls for an agenda for eu mountainous regions and the consideration of the mountain dimension within future programmes and policies of the eu, especially within the esif. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy in mountain regions must be specific, taking into account the special conditions in these areas. in romania and other member states there are many mountain regions with ecosystems that need to be protected. at the same time, mountain regions face terrain-specific challenges such as difficult access to resources, cumbersome and costly transport, frequent climate change, a lack of professionally trained human resources, and a lack of infrastructure for community-based services. the isolation of mountain areas makes them unattractive to investors, and this affects economic development. that is why the commission must find special programmes. agricultural policies need to be aligned with those of tourism and of craft and handicraft production. i support the proposal in this report and stress the need for member states and the commission to carry out periodic evaluations in order to guide a policy of financing these areas. in mountain regions, support must be given to smes, the development of services, tourism and manufacturing. attracting young people to mountain areas is a priority and the commission needs to prepare measures to stimulate young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. as centres of green growth, the mountainous regions should be a leading force in sustainable growth in the european union. this report states that we need an agenda for mountainous regions and consideration of the mountain dimension in future programmes of the eu and within the esif.
in writing. ‒ the current cohesion policy rarely targets mountainous regions. i have voted for this report that will bring a coordinated eu policy and an agenda for eu mountainous regions. it also establishes a definition of mountainous regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. although mountain regions represent an important part of the eu territory, they are structurally disadvantaged because of their extreme conditions and peripheral nature. as itre s&d coordinator, i stress the importance of achieving the eu's renewable energy targets and developing energy and communications infrastructure. the commission should develop specific policies to reduce the digital divide in these regions, including through the necessary public investment. new information and communication technologies offer varied opportunities for employment, social inclusion and empowerment in the emerging digital economy, and esi funds could be used for such opportunities. easier access to new information technologies may lead to the development of distance education programmes as well as e-health services in mountain areas. i encourage the proposing and sharing of examples of good practice, thus contributing to the economic diversification of mountain areas.
in writing. ‒ mountainous regions in the eu face distinct social, environmental, technical and economic challenges such as depopulation, poor infrastructure and few employment opportunities. however, as this resolution rightly points out, the natural environment of mountainous regions also offers untapped resources that could be used to create green, environmentally friendly jobs. i voted to adopt this resolution because it addresses concrete ways for the eu to respond to these issues through, amongst others, the development of an agenda for eu mountainous regions. such an agenda should earmark funds from, in particular, the european structural and investment funds and set out a plan for how to best tap into the natural resources of mountainous regions to ensure more inclusive, cohesive and sustainable development and growth.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mountain regions have rarely been the focus of cohesion policy. this report highlights how such regions can contribute to eu objectives, especially in the field of renewable energy. the natural resources and the particularities of these areas can also stimulate employment opportunities, in particular by creating new green jobs. on the other hand, this report calls for an 'agenda for mountain regions' and for this dimension to be taken into account in future eu programmes and policies. i express my support for this initiative.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions account for about 30%, a significant part of the territory of the european union (eu). these regions are structurally disadvantaged due to extreme conditions and their peripheral nature, so that many mountain regions are facing depopulation and population ageing, which can affect the natural cycle of generations, leading to a reduction in social standards and quality of life. by their abundance and diversity of renewable energy sources and their dependence on energy efficiency and resource use, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general. mountain agriculture is important for the identity and culture of mountain regions and continues to contribute to employment and to certain economic sectors in these regions, such as mountain agriculture, forest resources and tourism. the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) should provide complementary support with a view to creating synergies that will lead to better development. i support the report as it calls for the integration of the mountain dimension into future eu programmes and policies, in particular the esi funds.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on ongoing negotiations on the first review of the economic adjustment programme for greece (2016/0697(rsp)).
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, thank you for allowing me to ask a question for the third time. we couldn't ask your colleagues, we probably can't ask the epp questions. i have listened to your point of view, and i would like to understand it, because it is similar to that of the previous speakers from the epp: how do you understand solidarity? greece is a full member of the european union. the treaty talks about cohesion. what is solidarity? what would be, in your view, solidarity and rights in the case of a member state that is experiencing problems and difficulties?
blue-card question.– madam president, our colleague mentioned something about the situation with the european union and the international monetary fund. in fact greece has made some progress in fiscal terms i would say, and in the end – and this is my question to you – do you not think that the european union and the international monetary fund should find a common, maybe political, and of course financial, solution?
madam president, the situation in which greece finds itself now is the result of political actions undertaken by this government since it took office. greece was on its way out of crisis in the second half of 2014. it had projected economic growth of more than 2% for 2015 and the primary budgetary surplus, but this was all jeopardised by the current government last year. keeping banks closed for three weeks would harm any economy. but what is the way forward now? the way forward, in my view, is reforms. what greece now needs is reforms. greece needs a functional and efficient public administration; this would be to the benefit of the people. greece needs more competitive and flexible labour markets; this would help people find a job, especially young people. the government should make it easy for young people to start their own business. education needs to respond to the needs of the labour market; enterprises need to be privatised and well-managed. all this will make greece competitive and it will lead to investments and new jobs. these measures work. we have seen it in portugal, in ireland, in cyprus, in spain. only if applied completely will this package help greece. unless the economy is competitive, strong and reformed, everything else is just a quick fix. even debt relief alone will not help. reprofiling debt alone will not regain the trust of investors and new debt will accumulate unless the budget is brought into order and the economy is reformed.
madam president, in september 2015, the european commission had already set seven priorities for the field of humanitarian action. the question now before this world humanitarian summit is: can we move from the affirmation of good intentions to very concrete things? i believe that, as commissioner stylianides says, we must act with courage and give clear answers, at least to the funding gap in humanitarian aid and, secondly, to the effectiveness of that aid. my second point concerns the link between humanitarian aid and political solutions to crises. on this point i disagree with mr corrao. i do not believe that humanitarian aid can be a substitute for political solutions to crises. i do not think that there is any need to stigmatize europe. we should be proud that europe is truly the world's leading donor.
madam president, i truly hope the world humanitarian summit will take important steps forward in order to identify solutions to fully reshape the humanitarian system. i would say to the commissioner that in the end it is a matter of the european union’s level of ambition. we, the european union, commissioner, have to come forward with real proposals for a new, real humanitarian system in this world in order to take full responsibility for the european union countries and to seize every opportunity to make humanitarian assistance more effective and humanitarian work less dangerous. in order to achieve all these goals, it is fundamental to develop a common understanding among stakeholders of key concepts, such as accountability and transparency and to create a new business model to anticipate risks that makes greater use of joint planning.
the fact that we are now witnessing an unprecedented increase in the number of people affected by violent conflicts or natural disasters, and that the number of displaced persons, or refugees, has never been so high since the second world war, justifies the very existence of the humanitarian summit. the staggering numbers of people in need of humanitarian aid are a sign that the world is increasingly divided into those who need help and those who can help because of their circumstances. the eu is the world's largest donor, but the scale of the problem means that it is no longer enough: global action is needed to reduce the devastating effects of climate change, terrorism and violent conflict. the explosive population growth in developing regions could also pose new challenges for humanitarian aid in the coming decades.
in writing. the high level meeting to be held in istanbul on 23-24 may 2016 is a response to the unprecedented increase in the number of people affected by armed conflict and natural disasters. it is a unique opportunity to build a global consensus to reaffirm the principles of humanitarian aid and strengthen humanitarian action. it is necessary to identify new ways of financing the humanitarian sector in a predictable and appropriate manner. increased attention should be paid to the dimension of disaster prevention and preparedness and vulnerability reduction, including the involvement of local people in humanitarian action and ensuring the safety of people in conflict areas, with a focus on the safety of persons and protection against violence of all kinds. the objective of the high level meeting should be to improve humanitarian action globally by developing a final document that starts from reaffirming the universality and relevance of the fundamental principles of humanitarian action, which should include a set of joint commitments to make the international humanitarian response more effective, as well as a plan for implementing the recommendations.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development adopted last september is a major achievement. this agenda will be the focus of global development cooperation in the years to come. but let me be clear, the adoption was just a very first step in addressing this global challenge and as agreement on the implementation and review mechanism of the agenda is still to be secured, we have important and significant work ahead of us, and yes, further preparation of the eu position before the july session of the high-level political forum in new york is crucial to ensure an optimal and action-oriented outcome that will be in line with eu priorities. as most of you know, the council is of the view that the follow-up and review process should accelerate progress on implementation of the comprehensive 2030 agenda. it should also foster broad ownership and accountability. without any doubt, the council remains committed to a full and active, constructive role of the eu and its member states in the implementation of the 2030 agenda, obviously in close cooperation with all partners and stakeholders. now in our capacity as the eu presidency, the netherlands organised on 19 april a meeting for member states to exchange best practices with respect to national implementation of the global goals. the netherlands will also organise a meeting at the end of this month about multi-stakeholder participation, and yes, we consider it of the greatest importance to maintain the indivisible nature of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development with the addis ababa action agenda as an integral part of the 2030 agenda. the eu has started its work for the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the commission will present a new approach to ensuring economic growth as well as social and environmental sustainability beyond the 2020 timeframe, taking into account the europe 2020 review as well as the internal and external aspects of the implementation of the un sustainable development goals. a roadmap is expected to form the basis for further discussions. within this context i am happy to note that revision of the european consensus on development in light of the 2030 agenda will feature on the agenda of the development council on thursday. it will be a very first and general debate but i do expect council to focus on how to address the comprehensive nature of the 2030 agenda, how to ensure the best possible contribution, what means of implementation and financing instruments can be used best, as well as how to improve coherence, complementarity and coordination between the eu and the member states.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the eu was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and i see several of the key players before me here today. but new york was only the start; and europe has a duty – to itself, and to the international community – to lead in the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs). the commission is committed to delivering its part in an integrated way, and we have made our response to the sdgs one of the priorities of the 2016 work programme. we will present to you an initiative in the course of this year on ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ to map out the eu contribution. delivering on the sdgs is deeply entwined with our objectives under the 10 priorities of the juncker commission. vice-president katainen and i are coordinating this, while working closely with high representative/vice-president mogherini for the external side. this work builds on a solid basis. through the europe 2020 strategy, and through a wide range of eu policies, from climate change to skills and innovation, the eu is already delivering on many sdgs. one of the challenges in our institutions, in our member states, will be to prevent dividing up implementation between an international, a national and a european strand. what we do at home needs to be consistent with what we do in europe and internationally. if we are serious about the sdgs, we need to understand the philosophy behind them; namely that it is an integrated and universal agenda, and no longer the ‘developed world’ telling the rest of the world what they need to do. it is also us telling ourselves what we need to do. externally, the sdgs are already playing a big role in shaping our development cooperation but also more broadly. the commission will present later this year a proposal to revise the european consensus on development in the light of the sdgs and changing global trends. we need to address all three dimensions of sustainable development – economic, social and environmental. eradicating poverty, eliminating inequalities and combating climate change are not competing objectives; they go hand in hand. this means change in europe too. and 2030 is the day after tomorrow, if not already tomorrow. i strongly believe that if we take a hard look at our prospects as european society in a business-as-usual scenario, if we do not step up our efforts over the next generation, what we can hope to achieve in terms of structural economic growth is not encouraging – an annual average of perhaps 1 to 1.5% if we are lucky. with our demographic realities, that is simply not sufficient to sustain our social model, our european way of life. it is a very uncomfortable truth, but it is nonetheless true. if we want to be in a position to provide for our parents, our children, for everyone in need, if we really want a sustainable, social model for our societies, we need to move much more quickly to a sustainable economy, to a low-carbon, resource-efficient, circular economy. we need to make sure we enable people to fully participate in society. this is not about something that is ‘nice to have’; it something that is urgent and something we need to have. this is about competitiveness in the widest sense of the word. this is about the future of the european way of life. it will not happen all by itself. i am deeply convinced that new forms of governance and smart regulation are increasingly going to play an important part in that respect. to make this transition from where we are now to where we need to be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, you need governance; you need broad alliances with businesses, ngos and society at large. this is what we need to create in europe, and i count on working with you hand in hand. the european parliament will lead on this. if we fall in the trap of only defending the past, all we will find ourselves able to do, is to slow down decline. this is about shaping the future. a prosperous future for all europeans. so the commission sees the global 2030 agenda as a tremendous opportunity – for europe, for the international community at large. an opportunity also for us all to overcome our own silos, whether they are in the services or between countries and between institutions. our intention is to make the implementation of the sdgs, like the circular economy, a team effort. we encourage you to do the same, and i look forward to work closely with this house on this agenda over the months and years to come, and with the council of course.
madam president, i would first like to say that the epp group was one of the initiators of today's discussion on the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. today's debate is important to us in the run-up to the high level political forum in july, given that the effective implementation of the 2030 agenda is something we must stick to. as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i would like to draw attention to recital j and paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of the text we will be voting on thursday. if we want the implementation of the 2030 agenda to be successful, i believe that this policy coherence for development is necessary. we need clarity from the commission on how policy coherence for development and the 2030 agenda will be articulated.
blue-card question.– dear colleague, do you not think that it might be very important for the european union’s credibility and leadership that this important organisation is going to develop a common european union position on the implementation of the 2030 agenda? do you not think that we ought to call on the high representative, the first vice-president and the commission as a whole to do their best possible to develop a common position on this implementation which is so important?
in writing. – the sustainable development goals are essential to the objectives that the european union has fixed for its agenda 2030. they represent targets that the member states have to achieve in terms of internal development and assistance for the development of the poorest countries in the world. the european commission has to motorise the steps that are taken to achieve them but also to support the member states all the way. on paper the goals and agenda 2030 look good, but we have to make sure they are happening. it is in the best interests of the european citizens to push for their achievement and in order to do that we need to allocate financial resources and the expertise to make them possible. i really hope we will not remember the sustainable development goals only at the next un summit where we will have to think about other goals. for that we need to communicate more about them, involve people and civil society, and generate a common cohesive strategy across europe for their achievement.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to thank high representative mogherini for her passionate plea for solidarity and action. this is the message we need, and it is a clear invitation to member states to take action to show that our moral standards are equally practised and not only spoken – that they are not only good teachings for others. the situation today in lebanon and jordan is not sustainable. there are more than two million refugees in two small countries, in which they represent between 10 and 30% of the population. the un’s humanitarian appeal for 2015 shows that 61% of the needs have been financed. a lot was promised in february at the london conference on syria, but we know very well that funding shortages means that most of the vulnerable syrian refugees in lebanon and jordan live well below the un poverty line. the generosity of the communities in the two countries is high, but it might not be enough. if we fail to help the two countries, then they could become the refugees of tomorrow. i quote you, madam high representative: ‘jordan and lebanon are rocks in the middle eastern storm’, and therefore i believe we have to support them by all means. jordan sets an example through its important efforts towards democracy and lebanon is a stable but fragile state surrounded by so many threats. it is imperative to support their economic and social resilience in these difficult times. the eu has been a leading donor in the region, but we have to feel the sense of urgency and take difficult decisions. we also have to understand that if we want a comprehensive strategy to tackle the migration crisis, cooperation with turkey is of equally huge importance. on behalf of my s&d group, i urge the commission for the pledges to be disbursed and for the eu compacts to be finalised as soon as possible in order to immediately strengthen our assistance and cooperation with them using the full range of eu policies. finally, i will also encourage the commission and the european parliament to respond immediately and effectively to the jordanian request to grant the special arrangement on rules of origin, which we hope can help to provide new jobs for the jordanians and syrian refugees alike.
madam president, lebanon and jordan are hosting over 1.7 million syrian refugees, or about 20% of the population of the two countries combined. we must recognize this effort and continue to support it. we have already contributed over one billion euros in financial assistance, and this money is vital for lebanon and jordan to be able to manage the refugee crisis. both countries can offer syrian refugees a safe life close to their homeland. it also reduces the desire to embark on risky sea voyages. i support the union's initiative to provide eur 350 million for the education of syrian refugee children. this money has helped lebanon and jordan enroll about 140,000 syrian children in public schools. it saves some of the generation of syrian children, of course, not all of them.
in writing. lebanon and jordan are an example for europe and the entire international community of peaceful coexistence between different nationalities and religions in a conflict-ridden region such as the middle east. i therefore support close cooperation between the eu and these two countries - europe's strategic partners in the resolution of the crisis in syria and in the middle east peace process. the eu needs to strengthen its relations with lebanon and jordan, in particular by providing financial assistance for the effective management of the syrian refugee crisis they are facing, with these two countries providing asylum to some 1.7 million syrian refugees. i welcome the assistance already provided to lebanon and jordan, with the eu being the main donor to the middle east, with around €6 billion mobilised so far by the european institutions and member states.
in writing. – the highest burden in coping with the wave of refugees falls upon the neighbouring countries of the conflict areas. among these countries, the most difficult situation is faced by lebanon and jordan. turkey is not the only country that is in difficulty. if we consider the population of lebanon, of just 5.8 million people, the 1.2 million refugees it is hosting is a bigger burden than any other similar situation in the world. this means six times more refugees than turkey and 15 times more than germany. i must remind european leaders of the clear and very concrete proposals regarding the support eu can offer to lebanon which we received from mr nabih berri, the speaker of the parliament of lebanon, during his recent visit to the european parliament. similar proposals were also forwarded to the eu by the jordanian authorities. the european union has a clear and direct interest in helping lebanon and jordan deal with this situation. it is in no one’s interests to just sit and watch how these countries are bowing under the pressure of the wave of refugees. such a possible grim future is also a threat to europe’s security, and it must be addressed before it is too late.
mr president, madam high representative, i believe that the dramatic situation in which the venezuelans find themselves is proof of the utter failure of the chavista experiment. i'm sorry about the far left, but unfortunately, that's the way it is. we see all the signs of this absolute disaster with widespread corruption, coupled with the explosion of crime and the retreat of freedoms, as our liberal colleague mentioned, and, of course, maduro's conspiracy-mindedness. in this context, i do not understand how our socialist colleague can aspire to a dialogue between the opposition and the president. could we have a dialogue with someone who sees only the conspiracies against him? our position must be very clear: we must put pressure on the president. there are two million venezuelans who have called for a referendum, and i think we have to be very clear about this. i regret that last year, when our political group - the epp group - proposed the sakharov prize to support the venezuelan opposition, it was precisely because of this fraternity of the extreme left and friends of the extreme left that we continued to support someone who is very similar to the most troublesome autocrats. i think that the position must be very clear so that there is no doubt about our democratic commitment.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, let me start by thanking parliament for keeping the situation in palestine and israel in the spotlight at the top of our political agenda. once again, i wonder if there is a specific reason why these strategic debates always take place in the night sessions. i hope this is not a political sign. we all know that the lack of progress towards peace, especially in the holy land, is always a prelude to a new escalation, and this is why we need to keep focusing on the two-state solution, even when israel and palestine do not make the headlines. this is a consistent, constant eu effort to work in that direction because we all know that, on the ground, the viability of a two—state solution is challenged on a daily basis and it is our key interest and also it is our political duty to keep it alive and possible in concrete terms. the expansion of settlements challenges the two-state solution. so does the growing trend of demolitions and confiscations of palestinian structures, including those funded by the european union and member states. the same goes for the worsening living conditions of palestinians in the west bank and gaza. let me be very clear from the outset. demolitions and israel’s settlement policy are not the only challenges to the two-state solution. unfortunately, we see many different challenges taking place on the ground. terrorist attacks and hate speech challenge the two states and the possibility of people living side by side. the lack of palestinian unity challenges the two states and their political perspective. a growing sense of disillusionment and despair on both sides among the people is a powerful enemy of peace. so we always need to keep in mind the bigger picture, even when we focus – as we do tonight, because this is the issue on which you decided to focus our debate tonight – on one specific element of this bigger picture that is not encouraging for many different reasons and on many different aspects. but that still does not prevent us from continuing to work every single day for the two-state solution. today, your focus is on settlements and on the issue of demolitions. israel’s decisions to declare more parts of area c as state land pave the way for further settlement activity and, as you know, settlements are illegal under international law, and the european union always refers to them in this way and restates this position. the european council has stated several times that our union opposes israel’s settlement policy. we oppose a separation barrier built beyond the 1967 line. we oppose demolitions and confiscations, evictions, forced transfers, including of bedouins, illegal outposts, settler violence and – let me remind all of us – we oppose all forms of violence on all sides, as i mentioned before, and we oppose the restrictions of movement and access. this is not simply because we care about international law (which we do) and respect for it (which we do), but also because these actions directly reduce the palestinians’ ability to use the land in area c, something which is vital to development and growth in the west bank and to the viability of the palestinian economy. israel, as an occupying power, has a duty to protect the palestinian population and to facilitate its socioeconomic well-being. you all know that the european union is doing a lot to promote development and improve humanitarian conditions in palestine. however, as a result of planning policies applied by israel, projects funded by the european union and member states in area c are often deemed illegal under israeli law and are therefore demolished or threatened with demolition by the israeli authorities. eu humanitarian aid always respects the principles of neutrality and impartiality. we follow the humanitarian imperative of giving support to the most vulnerable, whenever and wherever this is needed, so where humanitarian projects are concerned, it is not conceivable for us to ask for prior authorisation from the israeli authorities. it is our humanitarian duty. in the first quarter of this year, some 500 houses and other structures were demolished, and 650 people displaced. approximately 20% of those structures were eu-funded. we are raising the issue with israel in our regular dialogue, and we have established a specific consultation mechanism with israel to discuss obstacles to the two-state solution and to the socioeconomic development of the palestinians, including the issue of settlements and the issue of demolitions in area c. these mechanisms were used most recently last month on this particular matter of demolitions and dislocations and the issue was also highlighted in the council conclusions we adopted last january. tangible results have so far been very limited. member states have agreed to continue the dialogue for six more months while pushing for an immediate moratorium on adverse developments in area c, especially demolitions and confiscations. we are also engaging with member states to agree common messages on this issue, including on the possible restitution or compensation for the confiscated or demolished eu assets. demolition of a house or a humanitarian project has of course a very strong economic impact on those involved, and also on us, but this is not just about money and we know this very well: this is about the present for the people and the future of the political settlements. we also know very well that only a serious and meaningful peace process can lead us out of the current downward spiral. there is an urgent need to improve the situation on the ground, and at the same time we have to keep an eye on the goal. again, let me conclude on the bigger picture, because we are focusing tonight on one aspect which is important, relevant and serious, but we have to keep focused on the bigger picture. this is something you normally ask of me, but tonight i will be asking this of you. we continue to work on a daily basis on two states living side by side, in peace and in security, to end the conflict and all claims. you know that we are working on the report of the quartet together with the united states, russia and the united nations. the quartet report will address these issues and will also include some substantial recommendations for the way forward, and i will be very glad to discuss the report with you in the coming weeks in one of the next part-sessions, because we know very well that what is key is working at the concrete perspective of the two states and how to put that in place in the near future. i know this sounds like a daydream today, but we need to keep that daydream alive and to turn it into reality. we know very well, as europeans at least, that this is the only way out of the cycle that we are seeing today, and we are stubbornly working in that direction. i know that i can count on you and on your support to do this as we focus on the parts of the problem we are seeing, but let me ask you, at one of the next part-sessions, to come back to the process itself and the european union’s contribution, through the quartet report, to other initiatives that are also in place and being coordinated, such as the french initiative to hold an international conference, in coordination with the work we are doing in the quartet, on our contribution to solve the crisis in the middle east and to revitalise the political peace process to get to a two-state solution. again, i know very well that we are all on the same page on this, but we need not only to make a slogan out of it, but also to translate it from a parliamentary point of view into an active, constant daily work.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, thank you for this presentation of the subject before us this evening: the demolitions in the west bank. the reality is that the problem is complicated. under the interim oslo agreements to which europe is a party, area c, where these demolitions were carried out, remains under the military administrative responsibility of israel. the israeli authorities emphasize that these are illegal constructions. furthermore, as you probably know - you may recall - israel has repeatedly criticised the european union, saying that it is financing construction which is illegal and which is aimed at creating de facto realities in violation of the oslo agreements. in any case, they insist that projects financed in area c must be coordinated with israel. since i understand from the various press reports i have seen that the council is preparing a strategy on the demolitions issue possibly including the idea of compensation, perhaps we should first of all think about this necessary coordination with the israelis? this coordination already exists at bilateral level between the state of israel and some member states, but it might be useful to extend it. as far as the broader perspective is concerned, i think that, of course, trust is an essential element in order to restart the peace process. now, i think that the israelis, in the last few months, have felt that it is the lack of trust that is being put forward, they are being told: "we do not want to work with you". it is really unfortunate because israel is still the only democracy in the region, we must not forget that. i know that the far left is not at all in favour of this and that they want to support the terrorists. i think trust is impossible without democracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam high representative, distinguished colleagues, everything we are discussing today is not new. demolitions of eu-funded projects or eu-funded projects are recurring and it's time we did something to prevent this, because every demolition basically demolishes the bricks of an edifice called peace and two-state solution. it is important, not only because it is a waste of european citizens' money, but also to avoid the continued displacement of palestinian families living in these areas and to ensure that european assistance effectively reaches those in need. in the absence of a political agreement, humanitarian assistance remains imperative but has limited potential. the union's main objective therefore remains to put the peace process back on the agenda, as you have just said. it is necessary to support the viability of the two-state solution as the only solution to end the longest conflict in the region. that said, israel has an obligation to abide by the rules of international humanitarian law and to stop the expansion of colonization in these areas. israel is our partner, one of our most important partners, one of the few countries with which we have a complex cooperation, but israel, as a sovereign and democratic state, has an equal duty to take responsibility for its actions, by ensuring both the respect of its international commitments and the respect of the democratic principles that define and govern it as a state. the european union has done a lot in this region. today it is imperative, on the one hand, to continue humanitarian aid and to invest in the future palestinian statehood.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europol's role has always been to ensure effective cooperation between member states on information relating to criminal activity, including, of course, terrorism. in the current context, there is indeed a need for a strong and authoritative institution that strictly controls the environments where suspicious activities could arise that endanger the lives of european citizens. the commission's analysis of the institution's evolution shows that we have extended its powers without taking account of its responsiveness. it is important that the tools that europol will use give it considerable but real power to protect the citizens of the european union. we need an institution that is authoritative, that acts in the interests of the european citizen and not in the interests of politics. we must not politicize this body, but we must let the professionals do their job.
madam president, commissioner, i support the new regulation for europol. i believe that european citizens need a better legal framework to combat terrorism and for their own security. the new regulation improves crossborder cooperation and crime-fighting actions. it is among the few pieces of legislation that focus on national parliaments and the european parliament. this means an increase in the quality of democracy. it is good that the new regulation also provides for data protection, but as i have said many times, the protection of personal data must go as far as it does not affect security. improving the governance of europol will lead to an increase in the safety of european citizens. the exchange of information between member states must work and must no longer be, commissioner, an achilles' heel. we don't need to hear, after a terrorist act, that it's the intelligence sharing that didn't work. people's lives are the most important thing and we should not take anything away from what supports the safety of citizens.
in writing. the new regulation on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) is a step forward for police cooperation in the member states. cooperation between supervisory authorities, at national and eu level, will contribute to the establishment of a high and harmonised level of information exchange and data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union. i believe that europol should have access to information exchange with ngos and be able to ask social networks to delete isis pages from their sites. the creation of special units to respond immediately to possible terrorist attacks and other forms of organised crime is indispensable. the eu-wide initiative will be implemented in the framework of the european union's new cybercrime centre, which will be set up in the framework of the european union's cybercrime strategy. member states should be obliged to provide europol with all data necessary for the fulfilment of the agency's objectives in the future.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, madam president, i should like to say at the outset that i do not share your views. i support the report, it is very welcome, but i ask you: do you think that we really do not have to think about the security of citizens and that there should be the possibility of selecting people who enter the member state, in the member states to ensure the security of our citizens? do you really not think we need to improve security in the european union?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, several years ago it was said that the european union had the best high schools in the world and that the united states had the best universities in the world. of course, it was a simplifying irony, but these expressions at the level of common understanding turn into stereotypes that generate serious errors when taken as political correctness dogmas. of course, facilitating the access of young people from third countries to the european education system is a noble and generous idea. i'm not opposed to this idea! the more valuable young people there are in european universities, the better off we will be. but i want to point out that the devil is in the details. it's not enough to have brains, you have to know what to do with them and how to put them to work. does the european union have a strategy for this? do we know how to make sure that the specialists from the member countries trained in the european union are not just a form of brain drain? do we know how to convince them to return to their countries and become relayers of european culture and science? so, do we know how to make these contacts raise the level of our universities? the european union is not a vessel to be filled, but a torch to be lit!
mr president, in the cut-throat global competition for highly skilled professionals, attracting and keeping talent from outside the eu is an ever—increasing challenge. unfortunately, thousands of the best researchers and innovators have already chosen to head to the us, australia or canada, where they are welcomed with more favourable conditions. human capital represents one of the key assets to achieving smart growth. the europe 2020 strategy has already recognised that to remain globally competitive and to meet its targets, europe needs at least one million more research jobs. in this context, it is essential that we also attract highly skilled third country national students and researchers. this is why having a common set of rules on admission and residence requirements in the european union would greatly contribute to increasing the attractiveness of the eu as a destination for talent. i think that the agreement reached on the final text, by reducing administrative red tape and allowing increased intra—eu mobility and access for students to our labour markets by preventing attempts to abuse that system, will bring us one step closer to attracting the best and brightest minds to our economies.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes). *** we have a request for a point of order from a colleague of ours who would like to address us.
thank you very much but i was reminded that those limits were our decision, so perhaps we should also consider that. in any case, we have taken note and certainly will pass this over to the relevant authorities.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ‒ taking into account eu regulation no 575/2013 and directive 2013/36/eu, the directives apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr as of 2017, the two derogations will expire and this time limitation clause was originally included in the crr to give regulators the time to establish that prudential regulation tailored to the risk profile of commodity traders. i voted in favour of the report on the derogations for traders in goods because i believe that we need to support all traders in goods so that they can achieve a better return, a return that is favourable both to the member states and to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the requirements set out in the capital requirements regulation as well as in the capital requirements directive apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the regime applicable to investment firms is derived from the regime applicable to credit institutions and is adapted according to the investment services they provide. we voted to develop a coherent prudential framework for all types of investment companies.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed regulation that aims to extend the exemptions laid down in the crr for commodity dealers from the large exposures and own funds requirements and, accordingly, amend regulation 575/2013. the prudential framework applicable to investment firms (including commodity dealers) laid down in the crr and directive 2013/36/ec (‘the capital requirements directive’) is currently under review. because it is highly improbable that any legislation that may result from this review can be prepared, adopted and applied before the current exemptions expire (31 december 2017), in order to continue their activities they might be forced to increase the amount of own funds needed to perform their activities. therefore i welcome the commission’s proposal to extend the existing exemptions laid down in the crr and to take into account the amount of time that will be necessary to conclude the investment firms’ review and to prepare, adopt and apply any legislation that may result from that review.
in writing. ‒ the capital requirements regulation implies the 'requirement for own funds' principle, which requires credit institutions to have sufficient capital reserves to cover unexpected losses. the high exposure and own funds requirements were developed to limit the maximum loss a bank can suffer in the event of the sudden failure of the borrowed entity. the credit institution thus maintains its solvency. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. however, the commission needs to review the framework on investment companies. a coherent prudential framework for those companies is necessary. therefore, since merchants of goods fall into this category, they agree to the extension of the derogations for them, until the legislative framework is clarified.
in writing. ‒ in march 2016 the commission decided to extend regulation 575/2013 that exempts commodity dealers from large exposure requirements and from own funds requirements. i have voted for this report that extends the exemption until the 31st of december 2020, in order to save commodity dealers from an unstable regulatory environment in the short term.
in writing. ‒ the requirements set out in the capital requirements regulation and the capital requirements directive apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is derived from the regime applicable to credit institutions and is adapted according to the investment services they provide. the commission has decided to undertake a single review on a proper regime for merchants and on the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and to prepare a single report on the above issues. this was considered necessary to ensure the development of a coherent prudential framework for all types of investment firms.
in writing. ‒ i supported, in my vote today, the adoption of this report on the extension of derogations from certain provisions of the capital requirements for dealers in goods regulation, as i believe that predictability of legislation is absolutely necessary to ensure a healthy competitive environment. in this respect, the possibility that these derogations expire at the end of 2017 without being replaced in time by legislation adapted to this broad spectrum of economic actors, defined as 'commodity traders', would cause instability and lack of legislative coherence. the extension of these derogations until the completion of the review by the european commission and the adoption of coherent legislation will give economic operators confidence in the efficiency and consistency of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions have developed a series of measures in recent years to avoid economic problems of the type that arose during the international financial crisis of 2008. these measures were aimed at more stringent regulation of the commercial sector, with a view to ensuring greater protection for consumers. one of those measures was the adoption of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 on capital requirements (crr), which was doubled by the capital requirements directive (crd) 2013/36/eu, documents applicable to credit institutions and investment firms, derived from the prudential regime for credit institutions. in those documents, there is a derogation for investment services in the field of securities from the compliance with the requirements for large exposures and, respectively, with the own funds requirements. the derogation, which is valid until 31 december 2017, was considered necessary to allow regulators the time to establish prudential regulation adapted to the risk profile of merchants. in view of the stage reached in the assessment of the necessary legislative framework, the commission considered that an extension of the derogation was necessary until the completion of the reviews already undertaken. as this is a request for the consistency of the union legislative act, i support the extension of the derogation.
in writing. ‒ the term 'commodity trader' is intended to cover a wide range of actors in the energy and commodities markets, as explained in this proposal for a regulation. investment firms may be assimilated, with the negotiation of commodity derivative contracts being their sole activity, or for others, represent only part of the activity of commodity production. the capital requirements regulation (crr) 575/2013 provides for a derogation for commodity dealers from the requirements for large exposures and own funds requirements with a deadline of 31 december 2017. to this end, the european commission has undertaken a one-off review and is preparing a report on the issues referred to, in order to develop a coherent prudential framework for all types of investment firms. i supported this report because it is appropriate to extend the existing derogations provided for in the crr. the extension should be granted taking into account the time needed to complete the review of the framework for investment companies and to prepare, adopt and apply the legislation that may result from that review.
in writing. i voted for the report on the derogations for traders in goods. the european commission has decided to undertake a single review on a proper regime for merchants and on the prudential supervision of investment firms in general, called the investment firm framework review, and to prepare a single report to that effect.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this document. i believe that it makes sense at this time to strengthen europol's powers. i'm not in favor of creating new offices. i personally do not support the establishment of, for example, a european public prosecutor's office. but this proposal, which does not establish an office but only strengthens europol and increases its chances of obtaining information on the various trends in cross-border crime, certainly makes sense. europol should provide national police services with feedback on trends in international crime and counter-terrorism in the future. and in order to provide feedback, they have to get information from the individual nation states first. i think, and i agree with the proposal, that it is also good that the europol special unit in the fight against terrorism is being strengthened. i think this unit can bring about some very clear results.
mr president, a stronger mandate for europol is directly proportional to the safety of our citizens. it is mandatory for europol to have a modern data system and a data management system. a legal basis for cooperation with private entities and national authorities is needed for europol. the exchange of data shall be carried out in a uniform manner. we cannot fight terrorism, organised crime, without effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at both national and union level. i was surprised to find that 23 of the member states of the union do not send updated information to the database, for example, the schengen information system, which means that in the schengen information system database we do not have all the information concerning those who could attack europe, be part of the jihadist group. it calls on the member states to make this effort, to fulfil this duty and to submit the data to the schengen database.
in writing. ‒ a high and harmonised level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is, in my view, a crucial way of respecting and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of eu citizens. the shared responsibilities of the union and the member states in the area of freedom, security and justice are of paramount importance for close and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities at both national and european level. taking note of the council's approval of the first reading and the approval of the joint statement of the european parliament and of the council on this resolution, it is noted that this act is adopted in accordance with the council's position. after approval, a reorganisation is also necessary to ensure effectiveness, consistency and, not least, to avoid unnecessary duplication of efforts. i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) because i believe that the law needs to be applied as well and in a simplified way as possible for better legislative coordination in the eu and in the member states.
in writing. ‒ europol structure needed reforming, including its overall functioning, governance, supervision, data protection regime and its relations with third countries and international organisations. this so-called lisbonisation process of europol represents an important step for greater efficiency in eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. it also guarantees stronger oversight and a clearer data protection regime. i strongly support the call to push for a strong oversight and data protection regime and to streamline the agency activities so it would contribute to a greater eu-level cooperation of law-enforcement authorities. a harmonised, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is crucial as a means of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support the new regulation for europol. i believe that european citizens need a better legal framework to combat terrorism and for their own security. the new regulation improves crossborder cooperation and crime-fighting actions. it is important that this act focuses on national parliaments and the european parliament because this is the equivalent of an increase in democracy. another positive aspect is that the new regulation also provides for data protection, but care must be taken to ensure that the protection of personal data does not go so far as to affect security. improving the governance of europol will lead to increased security for european citizens. the exchange of information between member states must work and must no longer be an achilles' heel. we must avoid blaming the failure of the information exchange after a terrorist act. people's lives are the most important thing and we should not take away anything that supports the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for high level data protection concerning police and judicial institutions in the union which will lead to securing the fundamental rights of the union’s citizen. this will also enhance the efficiency of eu-level law-enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ as a mean of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens, the creation of a harmonized, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is crucial. i have voted for this report on law enforcement cooperation and the creation of such agencies across member states.
in writing. ‒ merging europol and cepol into a single agency based in the hague would generate important synergies and efficiency gains. combining europol's knowledge in operational police cooperation with cepol's expertise in training and education would strengthen links and create synergies between the two areas. collaboration between operational and training staff, who will work within a single agency, will help to identify training needs, thus increasing the relevance and focus of training at eu level, to the benefit of overall eu police cooperation. this proposal for a regulation provides a legal framework for a new europol which succeeds and replaces europol and cepol as established. the proposal also strengthens the data protection regime applicable to europol's activities. thus, greater efficiency in eu law enforcement cooperation will also ensure stronger supervision and a clear data protection regime.
in writing. ‒ the council proposal aims to strengthen the level of data protection for police and judicial activities in the european union. in view of the common responsibilities of the union and the member states in the field of security and justice, it is important that there is close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at national and european level. the new measures will allow europol to respond to threats more quickly and to set up specialised units more easily. i believe this is an important step towards greater efficiency in eu law enforcement cooperation. for this reason, i support the council's position by my vote.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to increase europol's effectiveness and accountability, with a view to stepping up efforts in the fight against terrorism, cybercrime and other crimes. europol should thus strengthen actions and cooperation between member states aimed at preventing and combating serious forms of crime affecting member states and eu interests. in addition to strengthening europol's mandate, the new regulation aims to facilitate the creation of specialised units to fight certain forms of crime or terrorism. it also sets clearer rules for existing centres and contains new rules to strengthen the agency's data management and protection regime by establishing a mechanism for scrutiny of its activities by the european parliament in cooperation with national parliaments and a complaints procedure for citizens. this new data management and protection system allows for links between the different surveys. moreover, information exchange agreements with third countries will fall within the scope of the regulation. europol will also be able to exchange information with private parties in certain cases. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing new competences for the eu agency europol.
mr president, research, student and student exchange, paid and unpaid internships, volunteering, all of this is preparing the young generation for the historic leap we must make and are already making - some of you may not be aware of it, but many are. the mobility of the young generation is very important both for increasing competitiveness and for raising the skills of the workforce, the more competitiveness we have, the more skilled the workforce will be and the better the outcome of work and the society will evolve. with this opening up of europe to students and pupils from third countries, we must of course take care to adopt effective measures to prevent those who enter the union territory under the pretext of study or volunteering or work from bringing extremism with them.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims to allow member states to reject an application only on a case-by-case basis, taking into account both the specific circumstances of each third-country national and the principle of proportionality, but only on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons. at the same time, it is necessary to monitor and ensure that member states implement that provision in accordance with that interpretation when transposing the directive and inform the european parliament and the council thereof, within the framework of their obligations under article 39. i voted in favour of this resolution on the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, vocational training, volunteering, pupil exchange and au pairing, considering it essential to encourage teaching, research and vocational training, because this exchange does nothing but support the member states, but also the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the situation of third-country nationals coming to the union for studies, research, vocational training through paid or unpaid traineeships, but also for volunteering or au pair work is characterised by two aspects that i consider important. firstly, this mobility creates a transfer between the european labour market, the research field and these young people in the sense of providing a favourable framework for completing their educational and professional development at a high quality level, and for the eu it would be remarkable to increase competitiveness on the market. secondly, as this recommendation for the second reading itself emphasises, member states must not neglect the profile of any young third-country national coming to the eu and their application should only be rejected on the basis of evidence or serious reasons which would make their presence inappropriate. i am referring, of course, to the possibility of a transfer of extremism from outside to the union. i therefore support this recommendation for a second reading on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for research, studies, vocational training, volunteering and pupil exchange programmes, educational projects and au pairs.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is fundamental to make the conditions of entry of third-country nationals as simple and harmonised as possible, and to strengthen provisions on the right for students to work part-time while studying, and the right for students and researchers to remain after completing their studies for an 18 months period. at a time of negative news stories concerning migration, this directive is a welcome step forward with regard to legal migration for students, researchers and other groups of young people. we need to see more legal migration instruments at eu level to tap into the great positive potential of migration. the broadening of the scope, the provisions on mobility, the provisions on working hours and allowing students and researchers to stay after completion of their studies or research are all elements which i support and will keep fighting for. i am satisfied with their inclusion in the final compromise text.
in writing. ‒ i support this directive because there are clear improvements in the mobility within the eu and working conditions of researchers, students and their families. for the first time we have common rules for au pair work and this directive also covers volunteers. students will be able to work 15 hours a week instead of the current 10 hours. researchers can work for six months instead of three. all citizens have the right to remain in an eu country for 9 months after the end of the job for which they came. the directive provides for intra-mobility which prevents member states from blocking it. au pair is a cultural exchange programme that offers people the chance to do something new and at the same time get paid.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report. the eu should offer more migration opportunities for young individuals, such as students or researchers. migration can be a constructive tool as long as the security of the union’s citizens is first considered.
in writing. ‒ the european commission presented in march 2013 a legislative proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of research, studies, and training. i have voted for this report that will allow member states to reject an application only on a case-by-case basis and taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality and on the basis of evidence or serious and objective reasons.
in writing. ‒ the directive lays down the conditions for admission, entry and residence of third-country nationals in the territory of the member states for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, vocational training, whether or not remunerated, voluntary service or au pair work. member states shall be authorised to reject an application only on a case-by-case basis and taking into account the specific circumstances of each third-country national and the principle of proportionality and on the basis of serious and objective evidence or grounds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which endorses the council's position, thus concluding the procedure for adopting the amendments to the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, vocational training, voluntary service and pupil exchange programmes, educational projects and au pair work. i also support today's vote on the joint statement of the european parliament and the council attached to this recommendation, which clarifies the modalities and limits of application of article 20 (2) (f) of this directive, which clearly sets out the grounds for rejecting an application from a third-country national.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the extension of the scope of existing directives, providing more legal certainty for different groups of third-country nationals arriving in the european union. the initiative also aims to introduce special provisions on the mobility of these groups within the union. i consider this directive to be a welcome step forward in the area of legal migration for students, researchers and other groups of young people. we need more legal instruments at eu level in the area of migration to unlock its potential.
in writing. ‒ the central objective of this report is to establish harmonised rules at european level for third-country nationals to facilitate entry and stay in european territory for research, studies, vocational training, volunteering, pupil exchange and au pair work. the new rules clarify and improve the conditions for trainees, volunteers, pupils and au pairs from outside europe. the new rules will allow students and researchers to stay in the eu for nine months after completing their studies or research in order to find a job or develop a business. it also facilitates mobility within the eu from one member state to another, requiring only notification to the destination state without a new visa. moreover, researchers are entitled to bring their family members with them and they are entitled to work during their stay in the eu, and students are entitled to work at least 15 hours a week. european universities will have the capacity to increase their competitiveness on the international stage and become more attractive to ambitious students who have benefited from higher education in other countries. i therefore voted in favour of the report which sets out new rules for third country nationals on european territory.
mr president, the essence of eu cohesion policy is to help the poorer member states to get back on their feet. this is for several reasons: in addition to meeting the social need for an increase in living standards, it can also be seen as an objective to create fairer competition on the market. the common market is a very serious problem, given the enormous differences in income, infrastructure and service levels between the member states. it is important to make people aware that cohesion policy is not aid. unfortunately, we see that even leading politicians often use this word, which is a complete misunderstanding of the situation. without a successful cohesion policy, the infrastructure and living standards of the former socialist countries will be brought even closer to those of the old member states, leading to increased migration, dissatisfaction and disillusionment with the european project. it is therefore important to have the same level of resources in cohesion policy beyond 2020. it is therefore important to stress that the success of cohesion policy is also in the interests of the old member states.
mr president, some eur 360 billion is allocated to cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, i.e. one third of the union budget. in 2007-2013, we had problems with the implementation of projects using this money in some member states, mainly due to the inability of some authorities, due to the lack of information for the beneficiaries of the funds, due to the heavy and long process of project approval or the complicated procurement and authorisation process, and also due to corruption or simply incompetence of those who worked in this area. for this reason, i welcome the commission's initiative to set up an independent group of experts to monitor the simplification of the procedures for access to these european funds, and the first condition is simplification, and the second, very important, is transparency: everyone must know who is asking for what, what is being obtained, for how long, what is the cost and how is the work being done on these projects.
and you still paid money to the eu? written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the most important investment and development policy in all regions of the european union; it is the instrument through which the eu gets closer to its citizens and at the same time it is the main source of public investment in some countries. cohesion policy has a budget of over eur 350 million, which runs until 2020. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy can only be achieved through a coherent interaction between development and growth policies, and where necessary through structural reforms, but also through the active involvement of cities and regions, as cohesion policy plays a crucial role in this regard. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that a substantial acceleration in the implementation of cohesion policies is needed for a better work of accredited institutions, so that there is as much proximity to citizens as possible and that investments are as visible as possible to eu citizens and regions.
in writing. ‒ to bring about the desired change, europe 2020 needs to be better targeted, to constantly pursue its objectives and to have transparent benchmarks for assessing progress. we urgently need a strong governance framework that uses all the development tools available to member states to ensure timely and most effective implementation. i support this ep draft resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy as i am concerned about the delay in the effective allocation of eu budgetary resources to tackle the societal and employment challenges facing all member states and regions. i believe that the ep plays an important role in the strategy, not only as a co-legislator but also as a driving force for mobilising citizens and national parliaments. increased visibility of the financing role of the european union budget and a more direct link with european citizens could be ensured by promoting information campaigns.
in writing. ‒ eu cohesion policy, with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, represents in some member states the main source of public investments. objectives of enhancing growth and job creation can be achieved through a coherent interaction within the eu economic policy mix of structural reforms and growth enhancing investment, all supported and accelerated by cohesion policy investments. it is positive that rule n+2 from perspective 2007-2013 is extended to n+3 for all member states, but serious concern is expressed because of significant delay in the implementation of the cohesion policy 2014-2020, including the delay in adoption of operational programmes. the purpose of this oral question is to show which measures are envisaged by the european commission to facilitate the implementation of the operational programmes in order to avoid decommitments of funds and how the commission and member states intend to accelerate implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy can only be a positive element for member states. i firmly believe that investments under the cohesion policy – through its eur 350 billion euro budget until 2020 – will aid member states in enhancing growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on member states to use the esi funds to their full potential, in order to enhance social and economic cohesion and reduce territorial disparities by enabling all regions to become more competitive and to facilitate investment, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ during the 2007-2013 programming period, the main obstacles and problems that hindered the implementation of cohesion policy in several member states and regions were insufficient information for potential beneficiaries, the cumbersome and time-consuming process of approving major projects, complex and lengthy procurement procedures, complex state aid rules, complicated authorisation procedures, excessive length of the authorisation procedure and difficult access to funding. we invite the commission to provide, for the 2014-2020 programming period, information on the obstacles faced by member states in implementing cohesion policy and an assessment of the impact of the exercise of ex ante conditionalities on the effective implementation of the policy. we welcome the establishment of a task force for better implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes in eight member states and ask the commission to inform parliament of the results achieved. the commission should continue, together with this task force, to support and accelerate the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes in all member states and present to parliament an action plan on the task force's activities.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy is an important resource for the development of disadvantaged regions in the member states. the budget of eur 350 billion for 2014-2020 aims to support growth and job creation through structural reforms and targeted investment. a positive development is the extension of the timeframe for spending the funds available for the 2007-2013 period from two to three years, as some member states need this timeframe to strengthen the necessary internal administrative procedures. this should, however, not affect the implementation of the multiannual cohesion framework 2014-2020. in this regard, the commission should speed up the procedures to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes, in order to avoid the unwinding of cohesion funds. i wholeheartedly support the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament, the guarantor of the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ given that two years have already passed since the start of the new 2014-2020 programming period, the implementation of cohesion policy is lagging behind, with operational programmes largely approved since 2014-2015, yet a significant number of ex ante conditionalities have not been met to date. the 2014-2020 regulations have introduced several key reforms in the area of cohesion policy, but cohesion policy investments need to be aligned with other areas such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy, macro-regional strategies, the urban agenda, transport research and innovation, in order to best contribute to the europe 2020 objectives of the member states. i voted for the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy because i believe that the annual evaluation by the european commission can bring benefits for a better coordinated use of the european structural and investment funds.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, let me be clear, the creation of the schengen area, in which the free movement of persons across internal borders is ensured, is one of the greatest achievements of the union. without any doubt, it has brought important benefits to european citizens and businesses alike. yet over the past months, the system has been severely tested by the migration crisis, leading several member states to reintroduce internal border controls. now as you all know, the aim is to ensure that any and all remaining obstacles are removed by the end of the year at the latest, for the costs of losing free movement within the schengen area would be huge. now to overcome what emerged originally as a patchwork of unilateral decisions, we are developing a coordinated european approach, within the framework of the schengen rules of course, and let me also underline that the practice of waving through has now ended. clearly, securing the eu’s external borders, ensuring efficient border controls and improving the functioning of the asylum system are prerequisites for restoring normal free movement within the schengen area. this is a shared responsibility involving all our institutions as well as the member states. in other words, proper control at our external borders is our common responsibility, hence the need to reinforce our collective ownership over that common good. now, as we all know, last december the commission presented a proposal for a european border and coast guard. it is imperative that we adopt this proposal as soon as possible so that it becomes operational and it is therefore of great importance to work together in order to start trilogues in june and strike a political agreement soon thereafter. in february, the european council made itself very clear. member states must grant access to asylum procedures for all applications made at their borders. at the same time they should refuse entry to third country nationals who do not satisfy the entry conditions of the schengen border code and who have not submitted an application for asylum despite having had the opportunity to do so. the european council also underlined the importance of restoring the normal functioning of the schengen area in a concerted manner while giving full support to member states facing difficult circumstances. i am of course referring to greece, whose external border has been under immense pressure. now fortunately this pressure has, since the eu—turkey statements of 18 march, significantly reduced. however, serious deficiencies in external border control persist today – even if many of them have been, and are being, tackled by greece. that is why the commission presented on 4 may a proposal on article 29 of the schengen borders code, a proposal recommending a coherent eu approach to the reinstatement of internal border controls until the structural deficiencies are remedied, as well as proposing border controls only at the sections of the border where they are necessary and proportionate. now in closing, the effective application of all these policies and measures taken together, and the effective application by all of us, should contribute to fully reinstating free movement within the schengen area and i sincerely hope that we will succeed before the end of the year.
member of the commission. – mr president, the schengen area, as you know, is an area of free movement without internal borders. we have repeatedly said here that it is maybe the most tangible achievement of the european integration. this commission, from the very beginning, has done everything in its power to make sure that we preserve it in accordance with the steps set out in our back to schengen roadmap. our objective is to return to a normal functioning of the schengen area with no internal border controls as soon as possible and within six months at the latest because the costs of internal border controls are already visible. we see transporters complaining about increasing delays and costs and we see the tourism industry in some member states suffering and this is only a small part – a fraction – of what would happen if border controls were systematically re—established. but the political cost of non—schengen would be much greater still. it would be a highly symbolic reversal of a major achievement of european integration. this is why we need to take coordinated action at european level, making use of the tools that the same schengen borders code provides us with so as to allow member states to do what is necessary in the current circumstances, while preserving schengen as a whole. this is what our proposal under article 29 of the schengen borders code is meant to achieve. let me first acknowledge that greece has made significant progress in the last few months. however, not all deficiencies identified in the management of external borders control have been remedied. this concerns in particular sea border surveillance, reception capacities and registration on the mainland of migrants who were not registered upon arrival in the islands. despite the reduction in the flows due to our cooperation with turkey, the sustainability of this reduction still has to be confirmed. moreover, a number of these unregistered migrants remain in greece or in other countries of the western balkans. they may seek to move irregularly to other member states. in other words, the reasons that led several states to unilaterally introduce temporary border controls still exist. the persistent threat of secondary movements puts at risk the overall functioning of the schengen area. therefore a coherent, coordinated and sustainable common approach to temporary internal border controls, as foreseen in article 29 of the schengen borders code, is needed at eu level. article 29 is a tool to safeguard the functioning of the whole schengen area and this is the first time that the commission has made use of it. as a result, we propose that the council recommend that austria, germany, sweden, denmark and norway maintain their internal border controls at specific border-crossing points for up to six months. controls will be regularly reviewed by the schengen states concerned and adjusted to the level of the security threat addressed. the states concerned will also report to the commission every two months. let me be clear about two things. article 29 is not a sanction against a member state nor a means to expel it from the schengen area. i want to be very clear on that. we do not propose the introduction of border controls at greece’s schengen border, namely at airports and ports. in addition, we clearly state that the controls introduced should be proportionate and limited to what is strictly necessary to respond to the serious threat and safeguard public policy and internal security. they should impede border crossing for the general public as little as possible. the commission will continuously monitor the situation and will report to this parliament and the council, after four months, on the possible need to adapt the application of its initial recommendation. the principles of necessity and proportionality are the guiding principles for this and any future decision. let me therefore reiterate that our proposal is an exceptional – temporary – measure to ultimately allow for the safeguarding and return to a normally functioning schengen area as soon as possible. it is expected that, by the end of the six—month period at the latest, the implementation of other tools will allow the lifting of all internal border controls and a return to a normally functioning schengen. i refer in particular to the european border and coast guard, to the further sustained implementation of the eu—turkey statement, and the full application of eu asylum rules, as well as the swift agreement by the co-legislators on the recently presented proposals for reforming parts of the common european asylum system, in particular the dublin system. we look forward to the council adopting the proposed recommendation tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, unfortunately terrorist organisations have been underestimated, radicalisation has been underestimated. european citizens who have gone over to the side of jihad have been underestimated. the time has come, at the twelfth hour, to be lucid and to act. since september 2015, several schengen member states have reintroduced internal controls. i have been and remain a supporter of the schengen area, it is one of the union's most important achievements for citizens and for business. it's time for romania to join schengen. we have been using the schengen information system successfully for several years. as a state on the external border of the union, romania wants to enter schengen and take its share of responsibility in the field of european security. as the commissioner for migration has also said, an internal zone without border controls is only possible if we have strong protection of the union's external borders. the security of the external borders of the union is a mandatory condition for maintaining freedom of movement in the schengen area and beyond. we need to identify who and why is crossing the union's borders, this can be done by introducing controls at the union's external borders for both european and third country citizens, by checking databases, but the condition for any checks is that the databases are updated with real-time information by all member states. today there are 23 member states which have not updated the schengen databases.
in writing. the establishment of the schengen system has breathed new life into european freedoms, taking a giant step towards creating a true single market. the elimination of customs controls has eliminated the endless queues at the borders between states and has gained time and prosperity for citizens. however, in the current migration crisis, some countries have decided to close their borders, in the hope that this will protect them from the wave of refugees. this is a wrong move, shortsighted and against everything that the european union stands for. a problem of this magnitude requires a european solution, not a patchwork of divergent reactions. i therefore believe that a strong schengen area can be part of the solution we seek and not the source of the problems. an effective schengen must include all member states, including romania and bulgaria, which have already shown that they meet all the required criteria. beyond the fact that accepting them would signal that all states are equal to each other, we could finally focus on strengthening european borders. we must therefore prove that we are united at home, but also that we can protect ourselves from problems that come from beyond the eu's borders.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much. normally i am obviously available for all debates, but i will have to leave a bit earlier, so i would like to make just a few remarks in response to the contributions. firstly, i heard a number of negative comments about the eu-turkey statement of march 18. i understand, and i am the first one to admit that this agreement is by no means perfect, but let us also remind ourselves of the positive effects that this agreement has yielded so far. the vast and uncontrollable flows of irregular migration across the eastern mediterranean have been brought to a halt. the tragic loss of life has dramatically reduced. we have started an orderly process of resettlement and readmission. we are not there yet, but we have started it. the smugglers have been increasingly put out of business. we are regaining control over our eastern borders, so it might not be a perfect agreement, i agree, but it was and is the very first effective response to the migration crisis. secondly, let us not forget that the use of biometric passports by turkey will allow us to better control who enters the eu. it will contribute to our safety. the unhcr has obtained better access to refugee facilities in turkey. refugees have obtained the right to work in turkey and have gained better access to turkish social facilities such as schooling and health care. these are just a few examples. but what i would like to underline is let us not lose sight of also the positive developments. thirdly, a lot has been said today about the human rights situation in turkey, and i agree with everybody in this house who says that the situation is far from perfect. i also worry about the freedom of speech in turkey – and let me stress every human rights violation is one too many – so we will need to continue to engage with turkey on human rights issues, because only through engagement will we be able to achieve improvements. at the same time, i would like to remind you that turkey is hosting around 3 million refugees, so the efforts of the turkish government to provide a safe shelter for all these people fleeing war and conflict is impressive at the very end, and turkey deserves our support in coping with this enormous challenge. finally, as i said before, it is difficult for me to communicate at this stage a council position, since our work has just begun but, as i said at the beginning, it was important for me to hear your views and your concerns. let me stress once more that visa freedom can only take place once the commission has reported that it is satisfied with the efforts of turkey to meet the required benchmarks. so in response to many of you, let me be clear: we will judge turkey on its merits.
mr president, it is important to remember that the debate on visa liberalization for turks predates the start of this migration crisis. i therefore understand that some of our colleagues, especially the extremists, want to erase this and use the issue of migrants against the turks who, moreover, welcome migrants very well, better than some european countries. they also cooperate very well with europe to reduce the flow of these migrants to greece. that's a fact. the fact that the turks have put the question of liberalisation back on the agenda does not take away the fact that we have always asked them to meet 72 criteria. five of these criteria are not met, and we must of course wait until they are to really work on this issue. i would point out that georgia, for example, which is involved in the same debate on visa liberalization, has met all the criteria. we must therefore be fair and not put this subject in the mouths of extremists. it never solves a problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted by the commission presents a number of progress made by turkey in meeting the benchmarks. however, the authorities in ankara have not yet fulfilled all 78 criteria in the roadmap. a number of crucial elements still present difficulties that need to be addressed: the fight against corruption, data protection, judicial cooperation, and the review of legislation and practices on terrorism. i believe that the authorities in ankara need to make every effort to achieve these objectives. however, it is also necessary to take into account the support that turkey is providing to the european union in the face of a massive influx of refugees. i therefore believe that the european union can and must provide the necessary assistance to ensure that turkey meets its commitments. only through cooperation and constructive dialogue can we solve the migration crisis and pave the way for the european parliament and the member states to decide in the future to lift the visa requirement.
mr president, visa liberalisation is an important new process in our project with a key partner of the european union, turkey. it is one of the very concrete measures that turkish citizens feel and that can increase the attachment of turks and turkey to the partnership with the european union, but the key are the 72 requirements grouped in the five thematic chapters, some of them unfulfilled, as clearly shown by the reports of 2014 and 2016 and at the same time obviously, as seen today, it is also a political decision because, beyond these technical requirements, it is very important for turkey to make reforms, improve its attachment to human rights and also stop illegal immigrants. turkey still has a lot of work to do. i hope he meets all these requirements, all these expectations because otherwise it will be difficult for him to get visa liberalization.
mr president, i congratulate mr rosati on this report and i also congratulate commissioner moscovici on his desire for the european union to be at the forefront of the world in adopting the necessary legislation to prevent tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. we have to meet four objectives as quickly as we can because european citizens are demanding it. first, to remove secrecy from the financial system by automatically reporting financial information so that there is no place in the world to hide income and wealth. secondly, knowing the ultimate beneficiaries, all the offshore registered firms and this can be done through public registers. third, taxes should be paid in the countries where the value and sales are made, and we do this by reporting country by country. and finally, fourth, the clear penalisation of tax jurisdictions, tax havens that are not cooperative.
madam president, the growing inequalities in the eastern member states of the european union, where the saving rate is extremely low because of the income situation of the population, are having particularly painful consequences. a recent survey shows huge differences even between countries in the cee region: while the average savings in austria are €39,400, in the czech republic only €10,900, in slovakia €8,000 and in romania €2,600. if i add to this that in the country where i come from, in romania, 70 percent of employees earn a net income of less than 380 euros a month, it really puts the inequality in a different light. with this kind of income, we have to think about the middle class in a different way. what is a middle-class lifestyle in western europe is a privilege of the rich in our east. economic growth should be supported by an expansion of consumption, but low income levels limit the expansion of services and the growth prospects of smes. the future of europe also depends on reducing inequalities between member states and within member states. maintaining a strong cohesion policy is one of the tools the eu has at its disposal and its resources should be directed to catch-up beyond 2020.
mr president, the assessment of the parental leave directive’s implementation, as well as of the whole eu framework for work-life balance, is more than welcome. on the one hand, despite the fact that women are increasingly well-qualified, their employment rate has not increased significantly in the last 10 years: the percentage of women in employment in 2014 is still behind other developed countries and well behind our targets for 2020. on the other hand, low levels of fertility across europe increasingly weigh upon the demographic structure of europe: our populations are getting smaller and older at the same time. this puts a strain on social protection systems and hinders long-term growth. these phenomena need to be addressed, and the most effective way to deal with them is by adapting the current legislative framework so as to favour childbirth, encourage men to take parental leave and strengthen the position of women in the labour market.
in writing. although the european parliament has repeatedly called for improvements to existing community legislation on parental leave, current evidence confirms that a gender imbalance persists in this area. childcare is most often undertaken by women and this is confirmed by the much lower percentage of women in employment with dependent children compared to men in the same situation. women are more likely to interrupt their careers or work shorter hours than men, which negatively impacts their career development and promotion chances, as well as a less remunerated career path with consequences for their retirement income. i believe that more efforts are needed to identify the most effective tools for improving work-life balance in european policies, with the aim of reducing gender discrimination in childcare and women's participation in the labour market, but also in terms of the distribution of family responsibilities between women and men.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, our group has proposed several times to discuss this subject. i'm glad that for the second time in the last three months, we're talking about the crimean tatars. the human rights situation has worsened since february. since our last discussion, we have witnessed the abusive ban on the tatar mejlis, the labeling of this institution as an extremist organization. at the same time, censorship and discrimination continued to flourish in crimea, this ukrainian territory that russia illegally annexed - i remind you that we do not recognize this abusive act. i think it's essential that negotiations on russia's withdrawal from crimea begin. it is also important that international institutions have access to the territory of crimea to monitor the human rights situation.
madam president, the banning of the mejlis, the representative body of the crimean tatars, is a clear indication of how russian real-world politics works. the public benefit association was banned by the russian ministry of justice under the law on combating extremist activity, which means that the entire crimean tatar minority has been collectively branded as extremist and dangerous to russia. all this is happening because the russian leadership is demanding municipal driver's licenses from russians living in the eastern half of ukraine. russia's actions against the crimean tatars discredit its stand with the ukrainian russians. the european union also has a large number of indigenous national minorities, and we must not allow one or another member state to use the same technique to label them collectively as extremist and unreliable, as is being tried, unfortunately. it is not a good message for a state to treat indigenous groups living in its territory as foreign bodies, as this creates mistrust and tensions.
madam president, the council of crimean tatars, annexed by russia in 2014, was banned after being falsely labelled as a terrorist organisation. many tatars are imprisoned, dozens of young tatars are missing, and some have been found dead. why all this? because the tatars are the only minority, the only population in crimea that is organisedly opposing the russian federation, the threat and occupation of the russian federation. i call on the member states, i call on the european union to extend the freezing of assets of those who contributed to the annexation of crimea and to step up action against the russian federation. there are three things we're talking about here: 1) a european minority is threatened with extinction; 2) ukraine has lost over fifteen billion euros through the annexation of crimea and 3) european security is threatened. russia is militarizing the peninsula, the territory of crimea is the most modern air defense systems that endanger the entire southern flank of nato.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the eu and djibouti have a long-standing relationship and the eu remains an important partner. djibouti has actively supported regional initiatives and continues to provide troops to amisom, the african union mission to somalia, which is key in the fight against al-shabaab and to securing somalia’s political process. at the domestic level, the development of the political and human rights situation in djibouti is a matter of concern. human rights activists and opponents are subject to harassment and the political space of the opposition is narrowing, especially since the run—up to the presidential elections of 8 april 2016. throughout the pre-electoral period, members and supporters of the opposition have been arrested and detained without charges. the eu has followed these worrying cases closely and expressed its apprehension at different levels. on 21 december 2015, the police broke up a traditional religious ceremony that took place close to the capital of djibouti. the intervention of the police and security forces resulted in several deaths. the eu issued a statement on that occasion, demanding clarification on the events and that the perpetrators be punished. the eu condemns the violent action and considers that an international inquiry into these matters is of utmost importance and therefore welcomes the mission of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, which will be in djibouti this week, and hopes it will allow clarification of the issues. with regard to the recent presidential elections, the release of full and detailed results broken down by polling station would have increased the transparency and credibility of the process. the eu notes with regret that the dialogue on the implementation of the framework agreement on political and institutional reforms, concluded between the government of djibouti and the coalition of opposition parties at the end of 2014, came to a standstill last year. this is a missed opportunity for engaging in a democratisation process in djibouti. democratisation and governance efforts, as well as greater respect for human rights, are needed to ensure djibouti’s internal stability in a region marked by conflict and poverty. therefore, the eu will continue encouraging all political forces in djibouti to restart the political dialogue in view of engaging in political reforms, improving good governance and putting an end to the tensions the country has experienced in the last years. on the question raised by madam arena – what is the eu’s position with regard to the djiboutian women who went on hunger strike to denounce the rapes perpetrated by the djiboutian army – i want to assure you that the eu has followed the issue very closely. the eu considers that an investigation should establish the facts and the perpetrators be brought to justice. the eu stands ready to work together with all relevant stakeholders to improve the human rights situation in the country.
madam president, we need mandatory automatic exchange of information on taxation and i am glad that we adopted this report today. the latest information from the panama papers scandal shows us over 200,000 offshore companies, 200 states and 21 different tax havens are involved. this is an unprecedented situation. member states do not yet exchange data automatically, which is why we need to oblige them, and that is what we have done today with this report. the commission announced the publication of the country-by-country public reporting impact assessment in april 2016. let's come with our feet on the ground! we do not have time for impact assessments, but we must proceed immediately with this mandatory automatic exchange of information. it was said that it would reduce competitiveness if this information came out. i'm not sure. transparency will lead to competition and companies paying their taxes and citizens... )
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a directive aims to strengthen cooperation between member states' tax authorities to combat tax evasion in the context of the importance of aggressive tax planning. the need for all taxpayers to pay their taxes equitably derives from the ultimate purpose of collecting these taxes, namely to obtain higher tax revenues, which generates a reduction in public sector deficits, which is to the benefit of citizens. the commission notes that the tax advisor did not provide any evidence that the mne group was a company with a dominant position in the union. it is also necessary to increase the transparency with which these groups operate, in particular by requiring multinational enterprises to provide information on an annual basis and for each tax jurisdiction in which they operate on the amount of income, profit before tax on income, income taxes paid and accrued, number of employees, share capital, retained capital gains and intangible assets. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that close cooperation between tax authorities based on increased transparency leads to the smooth functioning of the internal markets and a significant reduction in tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ one of the major issues of concern within the union, and globally, is the problems of cross-border tax evasion, which have become considerably more acute. multinational groups of enterprises located in or operating in the eu with a total consolidated revenue of eur 750 000 000 or more will be required to report on a country-by-country basis. the country-by-country report must be submitted in the member state in which the subsidiary parent of the multinational enterprise group or any other reporting entity is resident for tax purposes. we voted for this first step towards solving these problems by increasing transparency.
in writing. ‒ in order to counter the aggressive tax planning we need increased transparency with regard to tax information, notably by introducing country-by-country reporting (cbcr) for multinational groups. because under the current legal framework member states do not share cbcr with one another, i welcome the proposal to set out a mandatory exchange of information of country-by-country information between tax authorities, taking into consideration that tax transparency is only a first step to fight tax avoidance. however, the commission’s proposal regarding a threshold will only make it possible to tackle 10% of multinationals, about 1 900 companies. i would like to underline that i am in favour of lowering the threshold to eur 40 million, the threshold of the accounting directive and cdr iv, in order to target about 20 000 multinational companies. in parallel, i believe that the commission should also have access to the information exchanged between member states’ tax authorities in order to ensure compliance with the relevant competition rules. i support the publishing of the country-by-country reports by the commission, based on the information contained in the centralised register of country-by-country reports. in doing so, the commission shall comply with the provisions on confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because there needs to be a mandatory exchange of information in the tax field. the panama case is one of many cases of tax evasion, economic crime. i have been and am a strong supporter of smes and in this area of tax evasion they are the ones who suffer the most. to reduce cross-border tax evasion, cooperation is needed and that is why i supported this report. an adequate level of information provided to member states' tax authorities and the commission in a responsible manner will discourage those who have become accustomed to running for profit, circumventing tax regulations and business ethics.
in writing. ‒ tax transparency is crucial in fighting tax avoidance. i voted in favour of this report because this is a necessary first step, however cbcr (country-by-country reporting) is needed.
in writing. ‒ the challenge posed by aggressive tax planning, cross-border tax avoidance and harmful tax competition has increased considerably and has become a major focus of concern within the european union and at global level. i have voted for this report that will oblige multinational groups in the eu that have a revenue equal or higher than eur 750 million to file a country-by-country report that will include every tax jurisdiction where the group has its activities.
in writing. ‒ it is of vital importance for the union that tax rules are designed in such a way that they do not adversely affect growth or investment, do not subject union enterprises to competitive disadvantages and do not increase the risk of double taxation, and that they are designed to minimise costs and administrative burdens for businesses. the directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information in tax matters lays down the rules and procedures according to which member states cooperate with each other and with the commission to exchange information which is foreseeably relevant to the administration and application of the internal laws of the member states concerning taxes and duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the fight against tax evasion needs to be intensified at european level. the economic crisis of recent years has made the people of the european community increasingly aware of the need to create a healthy tax environment in which all taxpayers must pay their taxes in a fair way. the report voted on today encourages the exchange of information between the tax authorities of each member state, with multinationals being obliged to provide all information about the company's activities. last but not least, this transparency will allow the state budget to increase, not only by absorbing more taxes, but also by reducing administrative costs.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution for mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation because i believe that public authorities in member states need to better communicate and cooperate with each other in order to increase tax transparency. although such information is not available to the public, cbcr is necessary in order to fight tax avoidance. the lux leaks and the panama papers revelations have brought momentum on tax evasion and have given the european union opportunities to further push for the regulation of taxation at the eu level. the eu does not need to wait for a third leak in the area of taxation before finding solutions to the issues that we are confronted with.
in writing. ‒ the report on mandatory automatic exchange of information provides for the automatic exchange of information on multinational companies' tax returns between member states as from april 2017. thus, multinational groups of enterprises located in or operating in the eu with a total consolidated revenue of eur 750 000 000 or more will be required to report on a country-by-country basis. this report proposes that the commission be associated with the automatic exchange of information and that it have access to the statements of each country, while respecting the rules of confidentiality. moreover, the commission should have equal access to the information exchanged between the tax administrations of the member states in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of competition law. the commission should also report annually to the european parliament and the council on the annual assessments made by the member states of the effectiveness of the automatic exchange of information and on the practical results achieved. this practice could be a first step in the fight against cross-border tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
we want to know what we're eating. one third of the fish we eat in brussels is mislabeled. in other words, we don't know what we're eating and where it came from. a recent study published by the ngo oceana showed that one third of the 280 fish samples taken from restaurants in brussels, including european institutions, are incorrectly labelled. it's serious and it's another wake-up call that we don't know what we're eating. i ask the european commission to investigate where in the production chain there are errors in the production and distribution chain of fish and to use dna-based barcodes as a tool to identify the origin and tracing of fish products.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and member states are urged to improve traceability and controls. non-traceable seafood may include illegal fish which causes economic damage and constitutes a risk to the protection of marine resources as well as a health risk due to a possible lack of sanitary and health checks. imports from third countries must fully comply with eu rules and standards. improved traceability can boost the economic situation of coastal communities as well as fair competition for producers of high-quality eu seafood. awareness-raising campaigns should be strengthened. labelling requirements must guarantee the right of the consumer to accurate, reliable and understandable information and avoid any confusion. in the context of voluntary labelling, member states are asked to state all available information that enables the consumer to make an informed choice.
in writing. ‒ various studies have expressed concerns showing significant levels of mislabelling on fish products sold on the eu market, including in the restaurants of the eu institutions. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that will strengthen national controls in an effort to tackle fraud and identify the stage in the supply chain where fish is mislabelled.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world's largest market for fishery products, which is supplied both by the eu fisheries sector and by imports from third countries. a good european fisheries labelling policy would be essential to stimulating the economic development of coastal communities by recognising the best practices of fishermen and the quality of the products they offer to consumers. consumers also have the right to be informed, with easy-to-understand explanations, including information on the geographical areas and coastline where the fish was caught, and should be able to rely fully on the entire chain that offers fishery products to the eu market. the eu and its member states have a duty to protect eu citizens from fraud and all imported products must comply with eu rules and standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the traceability of fishery products. traceability is essential, especially as fish and seafood are perishable products. i hope that both the european commission and the belgian authorities will take action to eliminate the irregularities in the labelling of fishery products.
in writing. ‒ european citizens have the right to enjoy quality food products whose origin is clearly indicated. unfortunately, this is not always the case at member state level, especially with regard to seafood. there are many cases where the labels of certain products misrepresent the true origin or quality of the product, offering a lower quality for the price of a higher one. this has already happened with the various tuna species traded at european level and is very serious. it is the duty of the european institutions to eliminate these reprehensible practices by introducing much stricter controls, both as regards quality and the elimination of risks to public health and as regards the exact determination of the origin of marine products. the origin of the products from third countries is often hidden, which results in the avoidance of the payment of the related duties and the falsification of the real prices, with negative effects on european producers and workers in the sector. the consumer must have all the information necessary to make a fully informed decision to purchase the product. in this respect, i support the adoption of the present resolution.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this motion for a resolution is to provide consumers with information on the geographical and coastal areas where fish were caught, given that the eu is the largest market for fishery products in the world, being supplied both by the european fisheries sector and by imports from third countries. in 2015, in the framework of a control plan aimed at determining the degree of mislabeled fish on the market, the european commission found that the declared species were confirmed in 94% of the samples taken. however, the results of several studies show significant levels of mislabelling for fish products sold on the european market. therefore, a robust traceability system is needed to provide consumer confidence, thereby strengthening the european market for fishery products and stimulating the economic development of coastal communities. in addition to stressing the need for member states to strengthen their national controls, the motion for a resolution also calls on the commission to examine the potential of dna barcodes that could help identify species. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail.
madam president, china is not a market economy: it subsidises companies and meddles in the way in which they are run, and its export prices are not determined by the rules of supply and demand. in addition it dumps its overcapacity production in other countries, where it creates severe economic and social damage, putting at risk hundreds of thousands of jobs in the eu alone. it has happened in the case of solar panels, tyres and shoes, and now it is happening in the steel sector. this is why i believe that, just like the usa, we should not automatically grant market economy status to china. instead we should opt for a criteria-based assessment of this status, involving a case-by-case definition of dumping margins, and prepare in advance strong trade defence instruments that can protect our industries against global unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ the issue of market economy status (mes) for china is a key topic of current interest in the european parliament. we must therefore engage in a transparent and cooperative process that leads to a successful and mutually acceptable outcome. i strongly believe that any decision on mes should be based on a solid and comprehensive impact assessment in order to evaluate the consequences on jobs and sustainable growth in all eu sectors. there is an evident need for the eu to maintain an effective anti-dumping instrument mechanism that takes the real market situation in china into account. we need to be united in the fight for balanced and reciprocally beneficial eu-hina relations. our demands and proposals will ensure that fair conditions are upheld in the european union’s trade policy towards china, and that there will be no automatism which could put european jobs at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution and against the idea of automatically granting china the status of a market economy. the resolution duly recognises the strong economic relations between eu and china and the importance of respecting international commitments, notably the provisions of china’s accession protocol to the wto, and i support this approach. at the same time, the eu legislation foresees clear criteria, which are not applied only to china, which guide the determination of whether a country can be considered or not a market economy. and china does not currently fulfil those criteria. together with an overwhelming majority of my colleagues, i therefore call upon the commission to take due account the interests of the eu as a whole and notably the need to defend eu jobs, ensure high environmental standards and promote sustainable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution following the evaluation made by my political group.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the joint resolution on china's market economy status because i believe that the current level of influence of the chinese state on its economy, together with its production capacity, provides the opportunity to offer dumped prices on the eu market, with multiple effects on the societies and economies of the member states. at the same time, the importance of economic exchanges between the eu and china is very high for the industries of both economies. in this context, and in the context of the forthcoming g7 and g20 negotiations, i believe that a detailed analysis of the types and implications of measures needed to protect eu economies and jobs should be undertaken.
in writing. ‒ the issue of granting china market economy status has been hotly debated in recent months. representatives of several european industries warned of the negative impact of granting this status on the european workforce. as the world's second largest economy and the largest supplier of manufactured goods globally, china could gain a significant undue advantage over the eu and its member states. there is no doubt that the chinese authorities have made significant progress towards meeting the requirements for such status since joining the world trade organisation in 2001. the changes needed in the functioning of the chinese economy have been highlighted by the five criteria established by the commission as early as 2008 and concern compliance with the supply and demand rule in product pricing, the use of an accounting type in line with the rules of independent auditing, the regulation and transparency of public subsidies, compliance with the internationally agreed exchange rules and the adoption of clear property and bankruptcy legislation. the chinese economy is currently in the process of transforming and implementing those criteria. i think it's premature to make a decisive decision that could negatively affect relations with such an important partner.
in writing. ‒ in 2001, china joined the world trade organisation and the accession protocol provides that by the end of 2016 at the latest, it will receive market economy status. the market economy status is not a symbol, it is the legal status within the world trade organization. where a country does not have this status, anti-dumping proceedings are facilitated for countries considered to be facing unfair competition. it is estimated that between 1,7 and 3,5 million european jobs could be lost if china is granted market economy status. it is also estimated that a potential decrease of 2-3% of european gdp would be expected if this status is granted to china. moreover, the five criteria set by the eu for the granting of market economy status are not currently fulfilled by china, therefore the eu should continue to impose anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on imports from this country after december 2016 as long as these conditions are not fulfilled. i therefore voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on china's market economy status.
the 2030 agenda renews the union's international commitment to eradicate poverty. we are again redefining and modernising our development strategies for the next 15 years, up to 2030. i ask the european commission for a detailed timetable to 2030 with precise targets, objectives and so on. we now have global targets, goals, indicators -- i would like to have them at the national level, at the level of every industry, at the level of every field that could lead to poverty eradication. we have all of this, but we still have a poverty that has not decreased at all in recent times. i also believe that the new development strategy must be the subject of consultation with all third countries, with non-governmental organisations, with national parliaments, with civil society and, above all, with the needs of those in very poor countries and with the people who should benefit from these programmes of ours.
in writing. ‒ and today, over a billion people live in extreme poverty, facing major environmental challenges - two-thirds of the services provided by nature, including fertile land, clean water and clean air, are in decline. from the outset, development cooperation has been part of the european integration process. a new europe, ready to respond to the needs and requirements of european citizens for a better life, requires a union policy that keeps pace with the rapidly changing global environment. partnerships with developing countries and emerging economies foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. we must all work for a better europe. the new sustainable development goals are at the heart of the 2030 agenda agreement. i support this ep draft resolution as the ambitious and autonomous environmental objectives, with a strong commitment to making sustainability accessible in the target areas, will lead to economic growth, increase energy production and agriculture and restore social balance. the 2030 agenda and the sdgs represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty.
in writing. ‒ the 230 sustainable development goal indicators represent a good starting point and robust framework intended for follow-up and review of progress towards achieving the 17 sdgs and we must insist on their achievement as much as possible. therefore, it is fundamental to hear from the commission updates on the follow-up and review of the agenda 2030. i agree strongly with the idea that it is crucial for the eu’s credibility and leadership to develop a coherent and common eu position on the implementation of the agenda 2030. the inter-agency and expert group on the sdg indicators represents a remarkable achievement and a good basis for negotiations since the proposed indicators draw attention to a far more diverse set of structural concerns. finally, i believe the new eu sustainable development strategy and associated implementation policies should be subject to a broad consultation with all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i believe that europe as a whole must be united with regard to the vision for modernisation and development strategies for the next 15 years. as such, it is crucial to involve all stakeholders in consultation – in particular civil society. furthermore, it is important to underline one particular aspect in this resolution – a renewed international commitment to eradicating poverty. this should be the eu’s top priority.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that reiterates the fact that the 2030 agenda and the sdgs are renewed international commitments to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and to make sure these targets are achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the sustainable development of the european union must be one of the main objectives of the community. the report voted on today therefore encourages the european institutions and the institutions of the member states to cooperate more closely in the pursuit of economic, social and environmental development. i also welcome the fact that the report encourages the european commission to develop effective monitoring, evaluation and accountability mechanisms for the implementation of the 2030 agenda, which are unavailable for the assessment of progress made.
in writing. ‒ the millennium development goals aimed to completely eradicate poverty by 2015, and although the goals have not been reached, the mdgs managed to raise international awareness about ending global poverty and its urgency. the agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals demonstrate great ambition and seek to achieve the goals that the mdgs did not. i fully support this resolution as i believe that the action plan in the next 14 years is crucial for the wellbeing of humanity and the planet and a periodic follow-up is necessary.
madam president, in answer to concerns about food quality, food safety and animal welfare, origin labelling can provide consumers with a means of making informed choices about the food they wish to purchase and consume. it also seems that consumers’ interest in the labelling of the food they consume is considerably strong. that is why mandatory marking of foodstuffs should be used as widely as possible. nevertheless, in the case of more advanced levels of processing, requiring complex traceability measures, mandatory origin labelling can lead to significant increases in production costs. considering the limited willingness of consumers to pay higher prices for their products, and the fact that around 90% of companies in the food sector are smes, i believe that a voluntary approach would be the optimal way forward in such cases. voluntary origin labelling is already widespread and, as the commission has pointed out in its report, if used, it would not raise additional operational challenges for producers, while the costs passed on to the consumer would be kept to the minimum.
madam president, i am very pleased that we have adopted today this proposal, this resolution for the mandatory indication of the country of origin on food products and i am also pleased that we have succeeded in defeating the lobby of the food industry, which has been very strong these days. several feasibility reports on mandatory product labelling were published by the european commission in 2015, and these reports showed us that it would cost more for industries to put country of origin labels on products, and that this would lead to higher prices for products, and the higher prices should be borne by consumers. i don't understand why industries can't afford this increase, because it is their obligation to write down which country produced a particular product they put on the market and not consumers to bear this cost. furthermore, as far as romania is concerned - and my colleagues referred to their countries - it is very important for us and for the romanians to know where these products come from. for example, there is a campaign 'buy products made in romania!'. people want to do that, but often the milk in the yogurt or the cheese comes from other countries. we want to know where it's coming from.
in writing. ‒ although the regulation on food information to consumers provides for the need to inform the consumer, the feasibility of this measure is hampered by the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of the meat. the indication of the origin of meat may constitute a non-tariff barrier, which will affect many european processors, leading to strong anti-competitive influences. the increased cost will also lead to a decrease in consumption with all its negative influences on the economy. for romania's situation, the context is different, as at national level romanian producers use voluntary labelling of the origin of meat, having in the romanian consumer a devotee of romanian products, but at european level romanian preparations that entered the european union late could be eliminated by long-standing and already strong brands on the european market. i am therefore voting against this motion for a resolution, since i believe that tightening the labelling rules would not have a beneficial effect on the market players: consumers, producers, processors.
in writing. ‒ country of origin labelling (cool) was already mandatory for beef and fish under eu law, and was extended to fresh pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat under the food information regulation. during negotiations on the food information regulation, parliament supported s&d amendments calling for cool to be extended to cover all meat, meat in processed foods and milk & dairy products. i believe cool is needed because consumers want to know where their food comes from, especially as it has environmental and animal welfare consequences; it would force producers to get a greater grip on their supply chain and limit the risk of fraud; it would help restore consumer trust in the food industry. cool is very popular with consumers: 90% support cool for meat in processed foods and 84% support cool for milk. it is also supported by many farmers and consumer organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods, in order to ensure correct information for consumers and to facilitate the promotion of romanian products on the markets. there is demand for romanian products, whose superior quality is recognised, therefore mandatory country of origin labelling will ensure more effective promotion of these products on the external market. the commission notes that the product labelling system is based on the principle of 'one product, two times', and that the labelling system is based on the principle of 'one product, two times'.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that considers it necessary to indicate the origin of milk, whether sold as such or used as an ingredient in dairy products. the same applies for the origin of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution calling for the commission to propose legislation making the indication of country of origin or place of provenance available for drinking milk, and dairy and meat products, including meat in processed food, as it is in the interest of consumers to be able to make informed decisions about food consumption by enhancing transparency. indeed, different surveys clearly indicate that a majority of eu citizens are in favour of labelling meat and dairy products, showing that this resolution is very timely and needed.
in writing. ‒ the european union now has clear rules on the indication of the origin of foodstuffs made from unprocessed meat (beef, pork, sheep, goat or poultry), eggs, fruit and vegetables, fish, honey, virgin and extra virgin olive oil, wine and spirits. at the same time, dairy products and cheeses, as well as processed meat and other types of meat are not regulated to the same extent. this resolution seeks to include these types of food in the regulated category of the mandatory indication of the country of origin. the voluntary rules currently in place at member state level are considered insufficient. at the same time, however, a detail that has been neglected is the increase in the prices of the products concerned following the application of the new regulations. this is not in the interest of european consumers. for these reasons, i believe that the present resolution should take account of several aspects before establishing a binding regulation at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods because it constitutes a non-tariff barrier, which will affect processors, the consequence being transmitted indirectly to national producers. moreover, a legislative proposal from the european commission on this subject will create strong anti-competitive influences and open the way to restricting and tightening national labelling rules, without beneficial effects on market participants such as: consumers, producers, processors. i consider this proposal unrealistic, based on populist demands. farmers and smes will feel a financial pressure that they would not have needed, as the commission's report clearly underlines that consumers are not willing to pay for the labelling of these products. european producers use voluntary labelling, with the indication of the national or even regional origin of the product, already having consumers who are localists, and these movements supporting the idea of mandatory labelling are clearly protectionist and not necessarily in the interest of the consumer.
in writing. ‒ the gender imbalance in parental leave persists even a decade after the member states have transposed the relevant directive. it thus makes it almost impossible to achieve the employment target of 75% for women set in the europe 2020 strategy. career equality for men and women is influenced by parental leave, and policies are needed to support women to enter and remain in the labour market and also to support their reintegration as mothers into the labour market. this agreement takes into account the main demographic, economic and gender equality challenges in the union, highlighting the importance of gender equality and equity in the distribution of family responsibilities between women and men. the importance of adopting family policies to facilitate a gradual return to work is also underlined, given that returning to work after parental leave can be a difficult and stressful situation. i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that women's participation in the labour market makes a significant economic contribution to the union's economy and also to demographic development.
in writing. ‒ in the last few decades, the european union has adopted two pieces of legislation on leave for family reasons: maternity leave and parental leave. those acts no longer correspond to the economic and social context of the union. the employment target of 75% set in the europe 2020 strategy has already been achieved for men, but is unlikely to be achieved for women (currently 63,5%) by 2020 without measures to support women's participation in the labour market. i voted for equality in the distribution of family responsibilities between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that modernisation of different leaves and their coherence in the eu are necessary to ensure gender equality, increase participation of women in the labour market and ensure work-life balance. fathers should be encouraged to take parental leave, which should be adequately paid with individual and partly non-transferable rights. i support the call for an ambitious proposal on maternity leave and a directive on at least two-week paternity leave. it is fundamental to open up the discussion on necessary work-life balance initiatives and on the disparity of implementation of individual leaves. we must come as soon as possible with coherent legislative as well as non-legislative proposals. moreover, we must continue to push for the revision of maternity leave, and repeat the call for a paternity leave directive. this should be a positive and solid ground for the broader work on labour market conditions for work-life balance following publication of the road-map.
in writing. ‒ the new agreement on parental leave is intended in principle to extend the scope of parental leave to all member states. i support this extension of parental leave. however, this report stigmatises the low use of parental leave by fathers, as it is in line with gender equality in the distribution of family tasks between men and women. this text is therefore too intrusive, since parents must be free to make any arbitrations they wish in the allocation of parental leave. finally, the desire for uniformity in this text conflicts with the competence of the member states in the field of social security benefit schemes. this competence must remain exclusive, in order to respect the sovereign rights of states and guarantee the freedom of individual choice. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in the light of the practical situation of the application of the old framework and the application of directive 2010/18/eu. member states need to act towards gender balance in the issue of parental leave. eurostat shows that only a very small percentage, 2.7%, of men have taken parental leave, which shows a major imbalance in gender equality. through this revision of the framework agreement, member states are invited to find appropriate policies for the reintegration of women after maternity leave, the public sector being an important employer that can balance the overall situation. i agreed to the maternity leave allowance amendment at 100% of the reference salary so that it would not be discouraging for highly qualified parents to want children.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report. it is clear that europe needs to work on policies regarding parental leave in order to enforce gender equality and increase the participation of women in the labour market. at the same time, fathers should also have the opportunity to take parental leave with the appropriate paid leave.
in writing. ‒ over the past few decades, the european union has introduced two pieces of legislation on family leave: maternity leave (introduced as a directive in 1992) and parental leave (introduced as a directive in 1996). although these pieces of legislation were considered modern 20 years ago, they are no longer in line with the economic and social climate of the union of today. i have voted for this report that will assess the implementation of the legislation on parental leave by the different member states and to draw the necessary political conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the revised framework agreement on parental leave. the whole union is facing a serious demographic problem, with birth rates falling in most member states. family policies that are fair to men and women could improve women's labour market prospects, improve work-life balance and reduce gender disparities in pay, pensions and lifetime income and have a positive influence on demographic trends. a mixed model, consisting of maternity leave, paternity leave and a joint leave, namely parental leave, allows both parents to take joint decisions in an appropriate manner on how to manage their leave rights, in the best interests of the children and taking into account the characteristics of their workplaces. we encourage member states to adapt their design and eligibility criteria for quality and inclusive education and care for pre-school children to the increasingly diverse forms of work, thus helping parents to meet their professional commitments or find a job, while maintaining a strong focus on the best interests of the child.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the right of all employed eu citizens to four months unpaid parental leave. moreover, the report sheds light on the implementation across eu member states of the legislation on parental leave and in doing so finds that fathers are still not using parental leave to an extent that could positively affect and promote gender balance in the work sector and overall gender equality. i therefore support the report’s call for reviewing parental leave legislation in order to set up the right conditions for equal childcare responsibility in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the arena report on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and the etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec. the european union today faces a number of demographic challenges. therefore, the legislation on parental leave needs to be revised to strengthen the aspects of its duration, remuneration, transferability and scope (since childhood does not end at the age of eight). it is also necessary to review the legislation on maternity leave and european legislation on paternity leave should be adopted as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ although much progress has been made in europe, women still have lower employment rates than men (63.5%) and a factor that contributes to this figure is women’s primary involvement in parenting and house care responsibilities. although, at the european level all employees have the right to four months unpaid parental leave, most member states comply with the minimum requirements for parental leave and fathers make use of very little of these rights. furthermore, women that take parental leave are faced with discrimination upon their return to the labour market and are given less favourable working conditions/contracts. these discrepancies are hard to understand, since the job performed by parents represents a measurable contribution to the economy and parental leaves have long-term benefits for children’s development. i support this framework agreement as i believe that family policies that are fair to both men and women will not only improve women’s prospects in the job market and reduce gender pay gaps, but also bring significant benefits to the economy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the whole union is facing a serious demographic problem, with declining birth rates, so gender-equitable family policies should improve women's labour market prospects, improve work-life balance. moreover, gender disparities in remuneration, pensions and income should be reduced, thus having a positive influence on the demographic process. the employment rate target of 75% set in the europe 2020 strategy has already been achieved for men, but is unlikely to be achieved for women (currently 63.5%) by 2020. in addition to ensuring gender equality and women's access to the labour market, parental leave should enable parents to fulfil their responsibilities towards their children. i believe it is important to review the implementation of parental leave legislation and to draw the necessary policy conclusions.
i voted for this report. we have a europol study that tells us that in 2016, 70 percent of the victims of human trafficking and the majority of the victims of sexual abuse are women in the european union, especially in central and eastern europe, and the profits from trafficking are estimated at 150 billion dollars. and so far we have had strategies and action plans at the national level, at the european union level, against trafficking in women. they didn't work because the traffic is still very high and the money the traffickers are making is increasing. i am pleased that this report provides for the appointment of special-purpose officers with special training to work in countries with high migration flows. i hope this makes a difference and reduces the trafficking of women a little bit.
madam president, the practice of trafficking in human beings is unfortunately flourishing in the european union as well. here and now, we are not talking primarily about trafficking in human beings, as is often the case in the context of the migration crisis, but about the traditional forms of trafficking that are practiced in all member states. there are, of course, countries that are primarily considered as source and destination countries, but the fight against this form of illegal activity, the identification and protection of victims, must be strengthened in each member state. entire criminal gangs are building on human trafficking, forcing european citizens to beg, provide sexual services or commit crimes. this is a significant figure, although it is not surprising that 80% of the victims are women, and many minors are trafficked. the eu has a number of initiatives to combat trafficking in human beings, including the creation of a european police office (epa) and the creation of a european police office (epa).
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights, but also a violation of the personal integrity of the victim, being a serious form of organised crime. the main victims, 80%, are women, with gender being a factor of vulnerability. for women, factors that increase this vulnerability are barriers to access to education, the gender pay gap, unequal access to employment opportunities, underemployment, development strategies that do not focus on gender differences. these types of barriers, particularly those related to education, can influence women's perceptions, and there is a chance that they will not consider these experiences in terms of exploitation, but rather in terms of service providers. in order to have a clear and realistic picture, the union needs to improve its data collection methods, given that there are still a significant number of victims who are not identified, given that trafficking in human beings mainly affects 'hidden populations'. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that prevention is essential in combating trafficking in human beings, and that initiatives to reduce gender inequalities and empower women need to be put into practice.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of numerous international laws and human rights. today, according to un reports, several agencies are reminding that trafficking in men and women should be recognized and the similarities and differences between women's and men's experiences of vulnerability and violations should be analyzed. however, it is very difficult for the authorities to estimate the real proportions of this type of traffic, due in particular to the low standard of living. preventing and combating trafficking in human beings is a priority for the european union and its member states. victims of trafficking in human beings need to be clearly informed of their rights. union legislation sets minimum standards, but depending on problems arising at national level, member states may adopt provisions that are stricter than those standards. i support this draft resolution of the ep because i believe that at the present time, when we are increasingly faced with the phenomenon of migration, the gender dimension must be closely monitored in the implementation of eu legislation to combat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights, as well as a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the rule of law. the vast majority of victims (80%) are women and girls. for them, there are several factors that may contribute to this vulnerability, such as: barriers to access to education, gender pay gap, unequal access to decent work opportunities, gender violence, unemployment or labour underemployment. we voted for better coordination to lessen the scale of this crisis, but also to reintegrate the victims into society.
in writing. ‒ the majority of victims of trafficking in human beings are women and girls trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation, indicating clearly that there is a gender dimension in the trafficking of human beings that needs to be addressed correctly and efficiently. it is fundamental to establish a legal framework to better enable criminal prosecutions against traffickers, to protect the victims of trafficking and reduce vulnerability of potential victims. in line with the anti-trafficking directive, member states need to take measures to reduce the demand for trafficking. one way of doing this is to shift the criminal burden onto those who purchase the sexual services of trafficked persons. i believe we need better identification, treatment and support for victims as well as harsher penalties for traffickers and those who exploit victims. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires close cooperation across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu as a whole needs to tackle the issue of trafficking in human beings (thb). on one hand, there is a need for better identification and data collection on this matter. on the other hand, member states must take action in enacting harsher penalties for those enabling, trafficking, or benefiting from thb.
in writing. ‒ the definition of trafficking in human beings says it is a violation of fundamental human rights under article 5 of the charter on fundamental rights of the eu, as well as a violation of the victim’s personal integrity and a serious organised crime that undermines the state and the rule of law. i have voted for this report that will bring initiatives to tackle gender inequality and empower women and girls, thus reducing their vulnerability to trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses how the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims has been implemented across eu member states. trafficking in human beings is a highly gendered phenomenon – 80% of victims being women and girls. the report stresses that member states should, in accordance with this directive, introduce a gender perspective into anti-trafficking measures, but that there is a need for clarification of what this means in practice in order to do so effectively. likewise, the report points to disparity across member states in terms of collecting data on trafficking in human beings due to a lack of common definitions and, in some cases, lack of gender disaggregated data. standardising data collection across the eu is essential for creating policies that can prevent such trafficking. thus, the resolution outlines important gaps in the implementation of the directive which need to be addressed, and it is for this reason that i endorse it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. there is an eu trafficking legislation, but unfortunately not all the countries have implemented it completely. member states have to deal with this issue in two settings. first at home, where they have to take measures to reduce the demand for trafficking, and outside their member state, where they have to increase the collaboration with other countries in the fight against human trafficking. there are several perspectives in tackling thb – starting with measures to diminish the demand, and continuing with the harsh punishments for the traffickers of human beings. more measures have to be put in place for the identification of victims and the special treatment that they need.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings (thb) is a large transnational phenomenon that brings profits of approximately usd 150 billion a year. although 80% of victims are girls and women, the majority of whom are being trafficked for sexual exploitation, victims of thb can also be found in other types of legal and illegal activities, such as domestic work, agriculture, criminality and forced marriages. thb is not only a gross violation of fundamental human rights and a crime that undermines the rule of law, but can also cause victims severe physical and psychological harm that could last a lifetime. i believe that the only way to tackle thb in the european union is for member states to better work together in order to prevent people from becoming victims. it is essential to raise awareness of this problem and to empower women and girls in order to reduce their vulnerability. furthermore, i think that coordinated systems of victim identification and victim assistance are due and a common set of guidelines in all member states is needed. i would like to express my support for this resolution as it takes us one step closer to ending trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the united nations stresses the need to recognise trafficking in men and women and to analyse the similarities and differences between women's and men's experiences of vulnerability and violations. trafficking in human beings is the result of global economic and social inequalities, the lack of public awareness of the problems associated with trafficking in human beings perpetuating a permissive environment for the phenomenon, while being exacerbated by societal inequalities. the gender dimension requires close monitoring in the implementation of eu legislation to combat trafficking in human beings, and a 'universal' strategy is not effective as different forms of trafficking, such as trafficking for sexual exploitation, trafficking for labour exploitation and trafficking of children, need to be addressed through specific and tailored policy measures. all assistance services for victims of trafficking in human beings must be truly unconditional and guarantee the absence of further victimization, as victims often do not know their own rights and how to effectively exercise them. in this regard, i support the need to accelerate the process of full and correct implementation of directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, of course, the banks need to be protected. of course, the european single market is important. predictability for investors is again very important. we are talking about a business contract, a business contract between two parties who have to take on both the benefits and the risks equally. in a commercial contract, the banks are the ones who give the credit, they get the interest, they get the insurance but at the same time they have to bear certain risks. it must be very clear to everyone that we are still talking about the effects of the 2008 crisis. we're talking about loans taken by european citizens in 2007-2008 (when interest rates were 10-11%, when house prices were very high), customers who had been paying these loans for years, who gave an advance of 20-30%. basically, the banks have been recovering their credit over the years, but because these customers couldn't pay their credit, the banks took their homes and left them in debt. it's a social phenomenon, it's a very big social tragedy in many countries, like croatia, like romania, that has to be managed by all the factors involved. we have to keep in mind that the root cause of the 2008 financial crisis was primarily banks that, overnight, transformed themselves from commercial banks into investment banks that gave mortgage loans, without taking any security measures, to people who could not pay back those loans in ten lifetimes, just because they could roll them over. this irresponsibility of the banks and this greed of the banking system has cost us all a lot. guess what! the banks were bailed out, the bank managers, the investment managers in those banks kept their financial benefits, but people were left homeless after paying for those homes for years, and not only were they left homeless, but they were still in debt. this situation cannot continue. you say that in croatia a billion is the price that the banks pay for this situation to be regulated and for the banks to take some of the burden of this situation. but i would also be interested in other figures besides this one, commissioner, because one figure is never enough. what is the value of the loans granted during the period? what is the profit rate of the banks in that period? what is the value of the housing stock that the banks have recovered from customers who could no longer pay their housing and how have they recovered it on the real estate market? there are a lot of negative phenomena associated with this crisis of foreign currency loans. there are, for example, in romania, situations where banks have taken the homes of those who could no longer pay, have given them to so-called executors, who have valued them on a black, parallel, real estate market at nothing, and were going to return to certain people who had connections with the banks that had given the original credit. it's a phenomenon that has affected a lot of people. it is a negative phenomenon, which distorts the market economy you refer to. it is not just about the free movement of capital. it's about the responsibility of the financial system, the responsibility of the banks and the measures they take when they have credit. nobody is stopping a bank from taking extra security measures, from letting the customer opt, for example, as it is in romania, for the law that just passed, the act of giving in payment, to opt to give the property back when they can't pay it anymore or to come up with extra guarantees. in romania, a very good law has now been passed, in our view, the law of giving in payment, which says that a citizen, if he can no longer pay his mortgage, his mortgage, should give the property to the bank and close his debt. of course, there was a lot of pressure: that it's not fair, that investors will no longer have predictability, but the situation is very simple. in the loan agreement, in the mortgage agreement, it's very clear that the mortgage covers the loan, the amount of the loan. therefore, when the property is returned to the bank, it is closed. the debt is closed. you say the banks are suffering very large losses. what is the loss, when an ordinary man pays 30% upfront, pays interest and installments for years, covering the difference in money, and at some point, he can't pay it back, after a year, two, three? the bank keeps the advance, the bank keeps the interest paid, and the bank keeps the property. what the loss of the bank is, i'm not very clear. i think there should be a clear contract, where everyone bears both the benefits and the costs of this contract, and the banks should remain commercial banks, never again be investment banks.
mr president, this debate is extremely interesting, and it is a pity that we are dealing with such an important subject at the end of the meeting on thursday afternoon. i listened very carefully to your speech, commissioner, and i am pleased that the european commission sees the importance of dealing with the individual national governments which are proposing, say, labour-related conversion laws, and that we are trying to find solutions which will help people who have found themselves in a difficult social situation, but which will not damage the internal market of the european union, which will not be retroactive and which will not be contrary to the principles on which our integration is based. i sympathize with people who have been put in a difficult economic situation by taking out a loan in another currency, but i also believe that the result cannot be the adoption of laws which are contrary to the principles of the european union. i am very pleased, commissioner, that you are following this up and that you have assured us that you are dealing with the individual national governments. in short, if some national governments want to help their fellow citizens who have taken risks and taken advantage of loans that have turned out to be less advantageous, then those governments and those countries cannot do so at the expense of business. and they shouldn't do it at the expense of other groups of debtors. so, in short, if we help one group of borrowers, how do we help other borrowers who were more responsible, who took less attractive loans, and now they're not in a difficult situation? let us also understand that the assistance given to one group of debtors is always at the expense of another and that there are therefore other debtors who have approached the matter more responsibly. i am from the czech republic, mr commissioner, and at the very time when there was a boom in these foreign loans in swiss francs in eastern europe, which is what we are talking about, i happened to be in the czech government, which strongly warned the czechs not to be swayed by promises and not to take out loans in swiss francs. we don't have that problem in the czech republic either. we have a strong banking system, we have a strong crown, even though we're a relatively small country, and we're not solving the problems that our neighbors are solving. and there's also the question of how the governments of the eastern european countries at the time contributed to this, and how they warned their citizens at the time that if they took an attractive loan, they were increasing their risk, and there could be situations where that risk would fall on them. so i urge you not to succumb to populism here and to really - and i feel that this is an effort on your part - to have a debate with national governments and to find solutions that do not damage the internal market, which for me personally is the main value of the european union.
mr president, we are debating a very important subject today and indeed it might have deserved a better time with a much wider audience. for most families, taking out a loan is a very important financial decision and even a very important life decision, and that's why it's important that we find solutions to these problems. i believe that we need to set clear rules for the future in terms of consumer protection, especially as the bargaining power between consumers and banks is very often disproportionate to the detriment of consumers. at the same time, however, i believe that we must guard against populism, we must not further destabilise the banking system, which already has many problems, and we must find reasonable and proportionate solutions. i agree with the commissioner that the solutions must be balanced, but we are eager to see what those solutions are, one possible solution being the law on payment for individuals, not for property developers, with a maximum ceiling, as happened in romania recently.
madam president, commissioner, i have some reservations today about the digital single market. the reason is that european institutions are embarking on large-scale projects without learning from previous failures in other market segments. we are talking about an open single market, but in the area of services, the supply from the eastern states, including romania, is constantly denigrated and abused. the reason is the competitive advantage of lower prices. so if in the case of services this price drop is not beneficial, why would we think that in the digital market it would be? why does the commission not address this issue, allowing tacit restriction of cheaper services from eastern europe? similarities also exist with regard to the labour market in the union. if this liberalization of the labor market has been so welcome, then why are eastern workers denied social security benefits? moreover, on countless occasions the authorities refuse to respond to a simple complaint made by them! if we want a truly free digital market, our competitive advantage and human resources must be protected from the start.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i agree that the digital single market package is very important, but do you not think that we now have many poor areas in europe that are lagging behind and that do not have access, and that by doing so we are discriminating against a very large population, a very large number of citizens, and that the commission should also prepare a support package for poor areas to be able to access the digital single market?
i welcome and support the commission's initiative on the digital single market. in the 21st century, it is self-evident that the countries of the european union must form a single digital market. the younger generation does not understand how we can talk about a common market without it. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that of the 16 measures taken by the commission, the restriction of content on the basis of geographical area has been abolished and that point 7 indicates what further measures are needed to make broadcasting services available across borders. i am convinced that, despite the commercial arguments, it is completely outdated to limit broadcasting to national borders, especially in view of the high interest in sporting events. at the present level of technical capabilities, it is unacceptable that citizens cannot watch certain sporting events in the language they want, even if they have a subscription to the service provider.
in writing. – the digital single market is essential to enhance the potential existing in this sector in europe. reinforcing the common market will enable our businesses and entrepreneurs to take advantage of the opportunities offered across europe. nevertheless a strong digital single market should take into consideration the needs of the weak, i mean by that the smes, start-ups and digital professionals. therefore we should not take for granted the benefits of the common market and should work together into steering the market in the direction that can help quality job creation.
blue-card question. – you know that climate change is a great threat to our future and it is linked also with migrants coming especially from the sub-saharan area. do you not think that the european commission president and the european council president should take the lead at the g7 meeting, because you were talking about confidence, and should call on the heads of state of the seven countries to ratify as soon as possible the agreement made in paris in order to set an example to other states?
commissioner, you have summarised the commission's main concerns for the future, reviewing the achievements of the last two years. i admit i was surprised by your statement about badly spent subsidies - about four hundred billion for cutting emissions. but what guarantees do we have that the next subsidy will not be misused? what guarantees are you giving us? you talked about tax evasion, but it's been a while since the panama revelations, and we still don't have any concrete measures to prevent another panama case. what will you decide at the g7? i liked what you said about trade: it has to be free, but it has to be fair. do you think we have all the measures to have a fair trade? i think not, and that is why i think, commissioner, that you must find targeted measures for trade defence, for harmonising standards when concluding trade agreements with other markets, such as the usa, canada or china. europe must be re-industrialised intelligently if we want jobs, and i think yes, the global economy must be run by rules, only those rules must be fair. what are you doing to get rid of two europeans, commissioner?
mr president, the union has already adopted several agreements relating to the exchange of information, from the tracing of money financing terrorist organisations to the register of passengers. the privacy shield will help the economy by taking the burden of high bureaucratic costs off the shoulders of small, small and medium-sized enterprises doing business across the atlantic, in particular. at the request of the european union, the united states has adopted a series of reforms to surveillance programmes that inter alia prohibit the bulk collection of data, protect the privacy and civil liberties of persons outside the united states, and guarantee legal remedies for union citizens. we need to recognise these advances and implement the provisions of this privacy shield as soon as possible. an evaluation of how it is applied is needed and this evaluation, i am convinced, will lead to even stronger protection of personal data, but let's start to implement it! we evaluate and make it better, otherwise we have nothing.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the commission's proposal for the european union e-government action plan 2016-2020. the 'once only' principle is very important for ensuring interoperability, both at national level and across national borders, as long as data protection rules are respected and no additional burden falls on citizens or businesses. secondly, the proposed e-government measures need to be implemented together with actions for e-identification, and the measure proposed by the commission is the development of a prototype european catalogue of standards in telecommunications and information technology. the target date is 2017. i believe it should be brought forward to 2016 as it is supporting action supporting the egovernment implementation plan. this measure should facilitate interoperability in the procurement of digital solutions by encouraging reference to common sets of ict standards and profiles in the tendering procedures of contracting authorities, and public service procurement criteria should be linked to erdf criteria in order to comply with procurement rules.
mr president, the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures the competitiveness of the european economy, growth and jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers and the protection of vulnerable consumers. mr vice-president, i welcome your strong commitment to tackling energy poverty and i believe you agree that future legislative proposals should contain measures in this direction and the s&d group will give you all the necessary support. together, we need to develop a strong and comprehensive approach to energy poverty, support member states in adopting the best strategies to tackle energy poverty by identifying good practices and sharing information, for example, a better possibility for member states to know what are the best practices at the level of the 28 member states. local and national regulatory authorities, energy companies play a critical role in ensuring that markets function in a way that does not disadvantage vulnerable consumers by ensuring supply, establishing codes of conduct for market actors and identifying vulnerable consumers by companies. our common goal should be low energy prices for european households and industry and we need to find long-term solutions to solve these problems. i want you to know that we will oppose any measures and decisions that would lead to an increase in electricity prices. this would mean a new economic crisis in europe, a new blow to european consumers and we will oppose any such measures with all our strength. the commission should also be able to provide information on the energy performance of buildings and the energy performance of buildings, including the cost of energy from renewable sources, and on the energy performance of buildings and buildings in the union. i would like to congratulate our colleague, theresa griffin, on the very complex work she has done in this direction, and the report will be voted on tomorrow. and thank you again, mr. vice president!
in writing. first, a viable energy union requires secure and reliable sources of supply to achieve a well-integrated and well-connected energy market. the genuine liberalisation of the eu internal market is directly linked to diversification of sources of supply. the eu needs to step up investment in the eastern mediterranean corridor to alleviate dependence on russian gas in south-eastern europe. i also stress the geostrategic importance of the black sea region for the eu's energy security, in particular for the development of multilateral energy cooperation in the caspian sea region, the middle east and central asia. on the other hand, the commission should come up with the necessary legislative proposals to enable consumers to have control over energy costs and to have access to the full real costs of electricity delivered, including those associated with transmission and distribution. last but not least, i believe that a reconfigured wholesale/retail market model is needed to avoid that regulated tariffs in the long run harm the interests of household consumers instead of protecting them.
in writing. – energy poverty is a real problem that affects also public health. the commission has the obligation to address this issue in its specific legislative proposals. on the other hand, member states have to take the necessary measures to ensure that all the population has access to energy sources, they do not pay excessive electricity and gas bills, and do not have to choose between basic needs that they can afford to satisfy. it is not just at eu level, but at national and regional levels as well that we need to see more action with regard to the eradication of energy poverty. we need transparency in order for the population to make informed choices regarding their energy consumption, and we need as well eu funds to be allocated for energy efficiency and for programmes to support self-generation of energy.
in writing. in recent years, the energy sector in europe has undergone significant transformations. however, over 50 million eu citizens live in energy poverty because there are still elements that prevent consumers from taking full advantage of and having meaningful control over their consumption and thus reducing the amounts on their bills. this is an increasingly serious social problem that requires urgent attention and should be addressed as directly as possible through social policy measures. a common european approach is needed, aimed at removing imbalances and inequalities in the market, to find sustainable solutions for consumers and for our industry to have access to affordable energy. i welcome the commission's approach that the local context must be identified, taken into account and supported appropriately, actively involving local actors. at the same time, the role of the consumer needs to change so that he can better and faster access and benefit from energy offers and services, taking advantage of them.
in writing. two issues are central to the discussion of virtual currencies. first, virtual currencies are a necessity of the present in which we live. because of their ease of use, alongside our traditional currencies, these virtual currencies are being used by more and more citizens around the world. they offer the advantage of anonymity of transactions and an increased degree of security of personal data. the second aspect concerns the legality of these currencies, i.e. the creation of a coherent legislative framework, adapted both to the present and to the future. currently, virtual currencies do not meet many legislative criteria, which makes it impossible to legalize them at present. however, even without existing legislation, transactions with virtual currencies are becoming easier and their use is growing, which is why we are forced to prepare a set of possible solutions to be discussed. the fluid, non-national nature of this type of currency and the inability of the competent institutions to monitor the flow of financial transactions force us to constantly reassess both the benefits and the disadvantages of these instruments. given the innovative dimension of virtual currencies, how do we respond to market demand in a regulated manner? more specifically, do we even know what steps we need to take to ensure smooth, undistorted regulation of this area?
madam president, the european funds allocated under cohesion policies are intended to ensure that the living standards of the citizens of the european union are raised. the procedures set up in brussels for their absorption are increasingly being simplified, but member states sometimes impose insurmountable barriers. in romania, under measure 7.2, which encourages the cessation of rural depopulation, limits have been imposed on the minimum population that an administrative-territorial unit must have, namely two thousand inhabitants, which i consider unacceptable. it has been ignored, knowingly or through incompetence, that in romania there are hundreds of municipalities with less than two thousand inhabitants that cannot benefit from european funds for the minimum infrastructure of running water and sewerage. the european commission must move on to another step, namely to limit member states to imposing additional conditions which, in most cases, make it impossible for beneficiaries to access these funds.
madam president, european citizens expect the european union to have rules and standards to protect them. one example is the health crisis facing romania, as the country's third largest producer of disinfectants has diluted its products sold to 300 hospitals in romania. we're talking about tens of thousands of possible medical problems that this situation generates. it's extremely worrying, especially since they could have been avoided if we had proper legislation and serious controls in hospitals. the crisis romania is facing could happen in any other european country at any time, in the absence of firm measures applicable to all health systems. i therefore call on the european forums to develop a set of clear rules, applicable to all member states, so that such situations are no longer possible in any european health system. i believe that the european union needs to have more powers in the field of health in order to be able to adequately finance this area and support the development of a quality health system in all member states, including in my country, romania.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that now that the commission is about to launch a special programme in this field, it is time to support producers with funds which will enable them to maintain their production, despite the low prices at the moment?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, i agree with much of what you said today. but i have just one question: do you not think that the common policy of the european union also has the role of finding solutions for the sale of dairy products and other products on markets other than the internal market?
madam president, commissioner, the dairy sector is under increasing pressure because of the increase in milk quantities, but also because there is not a large enough market to absorb all the production. unfortunately, farmers in romania and elsewhere are being put in a position to sell a litre of milk well below the production price, which will certainly lead to the bankruptcy of the entire sector. the commission should step up its efforts to address the major differences in the price of milk that leaves the farm gate and that that ends up on the shelf by strengthening the farmer's position vis-à-vis processors and retailers. it is not normal for this to come out with up to twenty euro cents, and on the shelf to find it with more than one euro. it also needs to find effective mechanisms for voluntary reductions in milk production and support farmers to switch to the meat sector or other sectors.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i too support the commission, but not only the commission, in solving the milk crisis, but i do not understand what you have proposed: how to ask the commission to abolish, to select, on what criteria, who, how much to produce? we're in a free market economy. what criteria do you see, do you propose to the commission, for dividing production by consumption? it's an absolutely inexplicable proposition.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) ...is facing serious problems across europe, with low prices putting producers in an impossible position, many of whom are considering leaving the sector. in some cases, the cost of producing milk exceeds the market price, so farmers are operating at a loss. this situation is unsustainable and national governments are often powerless to do anything about it. i think the commission has a huge responsibility in this matter producers, processors and consumers are all looking to brussels to solve the situation. some say the milk market disruptions are just symptoms of a temporary crisis, and the market will soon return to normal. we don't know if that's really going to happen, but by the time that happens, thousands of farmers could go bankrupt and stop farming. we have to do something!
in writing. during the 2014-2020 cap reform, i have repeatedly stated the need for market instruments to work. i said that full liberalisation would lead to significant problems and i proposed that some supply-side regulation instruments be maintained, but the majority decided to liberalise. yes, prices have started to fluctuate significantly, farmers' incomes are becoming more and more insecure, and we seem to be finding no solutions to end this perpetual crisis. besides, we're gonna have to think ahead. i would like to see the trade agreements that the eu will sign weighing up the impact on farmers and their incomes. i hope that once and for all the commission will realise that milk producers need stable incomes and this can only be achieved by having market instruments that are accessed on demand.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you are talking about standardisation, and you know, i received some letters from my country, from the small and medium-sized and micro-enterprises organisations, that are calling again and again that the commission should have to come with a real definition on social economy enterprises. do you not think that it is time that we should have to call again the commission to come with this definition?
mr president, commissioner, the digital single market strategy is a must. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the amendments they have tabled and to stress that, as i have also stated in my amendments, it is urgently necessary to remove unjustified barriers to the single market. we need concrete and rapid results in competitiveness, research, innovation and job creation, and for that, commissioner, you must propose measures to support smes, those who undertake to create jobs. we need to rethink the tax philosophy and the vat regime in the internal market . i want to stress the need to adopt made in and extend the geographical indication to non-agricultural products. the digital single market can only work if we have vocational training programmes and if we reach the poorest and the most remote and isolated areas with our messages, but also the ability to connect both online and offline. commissioner, i think that there is a need to support the issue of small and mediumsized enterprises also in terms of access to capital, access to finance and, as i said, a new tax policy. we need to support the arts and crafts because they can create jobs.
in writing. the single market is the backbone of european economic integration. the strategy for developing the single market is therefore welcome. efforts must focus on two priorities: removing any barriers to the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour; and stopping corruption and abusive practices of profit shifting from one country to another, as trade in intangibles is increasing. we must recognise that the single market is still fragmented for essential products and services such as electricity and natural gas, for which investment in the necessary connections is lagging. the european union also still adopts many regulations that reduce the competitiveness of european companies, especially small and medium-sized ones. the abusive transfer of profits from one country to another must be stopped as soon as possible, so as not to further destroy citizens' trust in the rule of law and in the state authorities.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology have a positive impact on citizens' well-being by helping to create secure, user-friendly systems with low transaction and operational costs, while ensuring privacy. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the financial sector, including the impact of the new rules on the financial sector, on the financial sector's ability to provide financial services and on the impact of the new rules on the financial sector's ability to provide financial services. ledger technology facilitates the decentralised, fast, resilient recording of any type of transaction along with the history of previous transactions. it also provides for the possibility of merging traditional and innovative types of payment instruments into a single application, which would contribute to the development of electronic commerce and the deepening of the single market. smart regulation in this area to support innovation requires the development of regulatory capacity in technical expertise. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a timely report that will help to improve the level of financial well-being of citizens and also lead to the strengthening of the single market.
in writing. ‒ still in its infancy, the virtual currency industry has seen rapid development due to the potential of distributed ledger technology to accelerate, decentralise, automate and standardise data-driven processes, reducing the costs of asset transfer and ledger management. this technology can contribute positively to the well-being of citizens and to the economic development of member states by promoting financial inclusion and facilitating access to finance across a wide range of industries and services in both the public and private sectors. however, regulation and the creation of a robust legal framework have not kept pace with the rapid development of this innovative technology, increasing the risks of its use for illicit purposes. promoting operational transparency and developing effective regulatory solutions to ensure consumer protection, resilience and reliability of the system architecture are necessary to reduce uncertainty related to the evolution of this area and the vulnerability of users. i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies, calling on the european commission to develop a coherent, comprehensive strategy to identify the benefits and risks of this technology and to strengthen regulatory capacity to oversee and ensure the security of markets and consumers.
in writing. – i welcome and support the inclusion in the report of a commission task force on virtual currencies, which would propose any necessary legislation to regulate the sector and to update current legislation, e.g. the money laundering directive/payment services directive. also, i support the suggestion to explore the promotion of an electronic wallet. the virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology have the potential to contribute positively to citizens’ welfare and economic development, including in the financial sector. however, virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology schemes entail risks which need to be addressed appropriately so as to enhance their trustworthiness. addressing these risks will require enhanced regulatory capacity, including technical expertise, and the development of a sound legal framework that keeps up with innovation, ensuring a timely and proportionate response if and when the use of some distributed ledger technology applications becomes systemically relevant. i also agree with precautionary monitoring instead of pre-emptive regulation in order to avoid stifling innovation. lastly, i support the development by the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the virtual currencies industry, of guidelines with the aim of guaranteeing that correct, clear and complete information is provided for existing and future virtual currency users.
in writing. ‒ the bitcoin was launched seven years ago; however it has not yet reached a critical mass and does not have the nature of a highly liquid asset. i believe that the underlying innovation, distributed ledger technology (dlt), will have a significant impact on the financial sector. the new technologies have the potential to contribute positively to consumer welfare and economic development, as well as bringing changes to the banking sector. however, some significant risks have already become apparent, like the abuse of certain applications for criminal conduct, including money laundering and terrorist financing. it is better to have precautionary monitoring instead of pre-emptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ the definition of virtual currency (vc) appeared in 2012 drafted by the european central bank as ‘a type of unregulated, digital money, which is issued and usually controlled by its developers, and used and accepted among the members of a specific virtual community’. distributed ledger technology (dlt) will enable a decentralised, resilient, rapid and secure means of recording transactions of any sort together with the history of previous transactions. i voted for this report that will introduce smart regulation of the dlt.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology have the potential to contribute positively to citizens' well-being and economic development, including in the financial sector. to date, no universally applicable definition has been formulated, but virtual currencies are sometimes referred to as 'electronic money' and are considered by the european banking authority (eba) to be a digital representation of a value that is not issued by a central bank or public authority, is not necessarily linked to a fiat currency, but is accepted by natural or legal persons as a means of payment and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically. i stress the importance of consumer awareness, transparency and trust in the use of virtual currencies. the commission should develop, in cooperation with member states and the virtual currency industry, guidelines to ensure that existing and future users of virtual currencies are provided with accurate, clear and complete information to enable them to make an informed choice, thereby increasing the transparency of virtual currency systems as regards how they are organised and used and how they differ from regulated and supervised payment systems from a consumer protection perspective.
in writing. ‒ a commission task force should be set up to monitor developments in virtual currencies and inform any necessary legislative proposals in this area. virtual currencies have implications for money laundering and other important issues related to monetary regulation, and this calls for a dedicated task force to provide the necessary analysis and advice.
in writing. ‒ information technologies have made remarkable progress in recent years, fundamentally changing our daily lives. such progress is also the emergence of virtual currencies that allow transactions to be carried out in information networks without the need to use national or regional currencies. the advantages of this procedure are the facilitation of financial transactions, mainly by reducing additional costs, but also the monitoring of financial flows, the increase of consumption and the fight against tax evasion. however, these transactions are currently taxed at an exaggerated level, which is affecting the development and expansion of the virtual currency sector. at the same time, there are also risks that this type of operation could be used by organised crime or terrorist groups for money laundering activities. all these problems could be solved much more effectively, however, by regulating the new field more carefully, using appropriate technologies (distributed ledger technology) proportionately and avoiding bureaucratization. this report recommends the creation of a horizontal working group on distributed ledger technology to develop smart regulation to encourage innovation and ensure integrity. it is a laudable initiative and i therefore support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the collective redundancies of 2 132 workers at moryglobal, france has applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the events leading to these redundancies occurred against the backdrop of the global financial and economic crisis. as a result of the reduction in freight volumes, a price war broke out in the sector, which led to moryglobal's bankruptcy and the laying-off of over 2 000 employees. the dismissed workers will benefit from a range of counselling and vocational rehabilitation services, as well as job search allowances. i voted in favour of the french request because i consider that in such situations, where collective redundancies are required, measures to support employees in order to support vocational training and reintegration into the labour market are necessary.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 2 132 redundancies in moryglobal sas in france, operating in the economic sector, classified under nace revision 2 division 49 (land transport and transport via pipelines) and also under nace revision 2 division 52 (warehousing and support activities for transportation) during the reference period from 27 april 2015 to 27 august 2015. the egaf funding of eur 5 146 800 is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 2 132 redundant workers into employment. the redundancies are linked to the general decline in physical output in europe, caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns. this has led to a reduction in volumes to be transported and a price war in the road haulage sector, followed by a wave of bankruptcies. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in france.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support people who are losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in the structure of world trade as a result of globalisation. the application from france for the mobilisation of the egf in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in moryglobal sas comprising 2 132 workers was approved by the european commission for an amount of eur 5 146 800. i welcome the commission's decision in this respect for the effort to support redundant workers by providing personalised services, such as general skills training workshops, internet training and instruction, job fairs and meetings with employers or industry representatives, all of which contribute to increasing the real chances of reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund can be accessed by any member state of the european union and aims to implement policy measures on the labour market and support the search for jobs, training and starting a business. it covers 60% of the costs for implementation of the desired measures, the rest being covered by the state, region, local authority, private funds. it may have an implementation period of maximum 24 months from filing the application. i have voted for this report that will bring aid to 2 132 workers made redundant at moryglobal sas in france.
in writing. ‒ france has applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies in the land transport and pipeline transport sectors, as well as in storage and transport-related auxiliary activities. the application follows the winding-up of moryglobal and 2 132 workers are eligible for egf contributions. the disposals under moryglobal are linked to the general decline in physical production in europe, which has led to a reduction in freight volumes to be transported and triggered a price war in the road freight transport sector. the consequence was the steady deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for this sector in france from 2007, followed by a wave of bankruptcies, including that of mory-ducros and subsequently moryglobal. france has indicated that the coordinated package of personalised services was drawn up in consultation with the representatives of the beneficiaries concerned and the social partners. assistance from the egf shall be complementary to national measures and shall not replace actions falling within the responsibility of member states or undertakings.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will assist workers who were made redundant as a result of the impact of the economic crisis on the road haulage sector. the use of funds to reintegrate workers into employment helps not only those who were made redundant, but also society at large in terms of social security savings. however, only a relatively small amount of the available funds has been mobilised so far this year, and i would urge the uptake of all the available resources to provide similar support for other victims of the financial crisis wherever possible.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. france submitted the application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal for a financial contribution from the egf, which will support 2 513 former mory-ducros workers and amounts to eur 6 052 200. redundancies in moryglobal are linked to the general decline in physical output in europe, caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns. this has led to a reduction in volumes to be transported and a price war in the road haulage sector, followed by a wave of bankruptcies. it is important to take into account the sensitivity of the specific labour market since france has the highest share of eu-28 value added within the land transport services sector. moreover, considering that workers in the 55-64 age group are at a higher risk of long-term unemployment and exclusion from the labour market with the possible effect of social exclusion, the specific needs when it comes to providing them with a personalised approach need to be kept in mind. i therefore support assisting the redundant workers and helping them find solutions to remain in the labour market and find new jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for france in the moryglobal case. in accordance with the egf implementing regulation, france is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 5146800, representing 60% of the total cost of eur 8528000, for the future reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by moryglobal. the disposals of moryglobal, a company specialised in land and pipeline transport, were linked to the general decline in physical production in europe, which led to a reduction in the volume to be transported and a price war in the road freight transport sector, resulting in a constant deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france, starting from 2007, followed by a wave of bankruptcies, including that of mory-ducros and later moryglobal.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 557 redundancies in supermarket larissa in greece, operating in the economic sector, classified under nace revision 2 division 47 (retail trade except of motor vehicles and motorcycles) during the reference period from 3 may 2015 to 3 september 2015. the egaf funding of eur 6 468 000 is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 557 redundant workers into employment. the redundancies were caused by a deep economic recession, the decrease of private consumption and purchasing power, due to the financial and economic crisis. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in greece.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide real support to workers made redundant as a result of the global financial crisis. the application submitted by greece for access to the egf amount of eur 6 468 000 for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the larisa supermarket has been accepted by the european commission. i welcome the commission's decision in this respect on the services to be provided to redundant workers consisting of guidance and vocational training, retraining and vocational training, start-up aid, participation and training allowances and mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund can be accessed by any member state of the european union and aims to implement policy measures on the labour market and support the search for jobs, training and starting a business. it covers 60% of the costs for implementation of the desired measures, the rest being covered by the state, region, local authority and private funds. it may have an implementation period of maximum 24 months from filing the application. as shadow rapporteur i have voted for this report that will mobilise a total amount of eur 6 468 000 from the egf to greece in aid to 557 workers made redundant and 543 targeted young persons not in employment, education or training.
in writing. ‒ greece has requested a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the retail trade following the bankruptcy and closure of the supermarket larissa abee. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was granted in the form of a guarantee covering the entire amount of the aid. the financial contribution from the egf shall be conditional upon the redundancies of at least 500 workers in an enterprise in a member state, including workers made redundant by downstream suppliers and producers and/or self-employed persons who have ceased their activity, in a reference period of four months. 557 redundant workers and 543 young people under 30 years of age who are not in employment and are not in education or training will benefit from personalised services co-financed by the egf.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will assist workers affected by the difficulties in the retail sector. this solidarity mechanism is one way to reduce the impact of the financial crisis and reintegrate unemployed people back into the labour market. the potential of this fund should be fully realised.
in writing. ‒ the european union has set up special legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by international economic change and to support their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the eu's trade policy should continue to focus on how to maintain jobs in the member states and, consequently, stimulate the social economy sector. in the case of the larissa supermarket, where workers were made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of the undertaking, the financial assistance should be effective and rapid. for that reason, i vote in favour of the measures presented.
in writing. i voted on the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for supermarket larissa, greece, a small food cooperative founded in 1986 with 42 stores and 600 workers, which was unable to recover from losses and had to close its stores in the second quarter of 2014. under the egf regulation, greece will receive €6 468 000 from the eu out of a total of €10 780 000, which will be used for retraining and vocational training, start-up business support, mobility allowances, etc.
in writing. ‒ the request to waive the immunity was submitted by the deputy public prosecutor of the ordinary court of vercelli. it seemed appropriate for the sake of legal certainty to accede ad cautelam to the request for authorisation forwarded by the deputy public prosecutor of the ordinary court of vercelli. i therefore supported the request to waive the immunity of gianluca buonanno.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
mr president, i also support sweden's request, made in december last year, to suspend for 12 months the obligation to accept quotas of refugees, as agreed by the council. sweden received over 160 thousand refugees in 2015 alone and this has put a tremendous strain on the swedish asylum system, obviously with negative consequences on the ability to process applications from those seeking international protection. moreover, all member states must be able to trigger defence mechanisms when faced with emergency situations, as in this case, when there is a very large number of asylum seekers and the authorities cannot cope.
in writing. ‒ sweden is facing a high influx of third-country nationals on its territory in the context of the migration crisis, and is therefore requesting the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601. in 2015, sweden registered the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in the eu (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants) and in march 2016 received a total of 170 104 applicants, including 73 331 children and 36 181 unaccompanied minors. the eu has also provided a number of supporting documents to the commission, including the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). this difficult situation facing sweden, both as a country of initial arrival and as a country of final destination, justifies the adoption of provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ sweden faces an emergency situation due to the sudden inflow of nationals of third countries in its territory due to the sharp shift in migratory flows. i have voted for this report that will establish provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden. the country is also facing a difficult situation because of the significant recent increase in the number of unaccompanied minors, who have special needs and require additional resources in order to provide them with access to healthcare, accommodation and education according to the european union’s asylum rules.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal by the council to recognise the request of the member state sweden to suspend its obligation, for a period of one year, to relocation of third country nationals, taking into consideration the enormous migratory pressure that the country has faced particularly within the last year. indeed, as of 2015 sweden was the member state of the eu with the highest number of applicants for international protection per eu capita, causing such strain on the swedish authorities’ ability to process asylum claims and provide asylum seekers with appropriate conditions upon their arrival that it is justifiable to characterise this situation as one of emergency.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis affecting the european union over the last year has had a significant impact on certain countries, which have had to take in more refugees than usual. one of these countries is sweden, where the number of refugees has increased exponentially in recent times, making it one of the favourite targets of asylum seekers. in particular, the number of refugees arriving in sweden increased by 60% between 2015 and 2016, with 39 055 asylum applications in october 2015 alone. in addition, in march 2016, the number of requests increased to 170 104, of which 73 331 were children, 36 181 were unaccompanied minors. faced with this influx, sweden has asked for the commission's support to be exempted from the proposed eu-wide relocation scheme for at least one year. the commission agreed to this temporary measure to allow sweden to provide asylum seekers with adequate access to healthcare, decent housing and education, in line with eu rules in this area. however, given the difficult situation currently faced by greece and italy, the exemption of sweden from the relocation scheme constitutes discrimination between member states. i therefore agree with the rejection of the commission's decision.
in writing. ‒ the development of the information society and electronic commerce, as well as the development of the interception capabilities of intelligence agencies, have led to an exponential increase in data transfers worldwide, but at the same time to an increase in the risks of misuse of this data. this type of abusive communication not only acts as a brake on the development of electronic commerce by undermining consumer confidence, but also sometimes constitutes a violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens and, in particular, a violation of the right to privacy. the commission has also concluded that the us privacy shield is not a sufficient safeguard against the unlawful conduct of third parties. i voted in favour of the resolution on transatlantic data flows because i believe that it is very beneficial for the eu countries, as the development of electronic commerce is essential for better cooperation between countries and, not least, for the development of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is fundamental to have clear and detailed information concerning the looming adoption by the commission of the adequacy decision concerning personal data transfers to the united states, called the privacy shield. however, as the text is now, it does not fulfil the criteria laid down for adequacy decisions in the eu data protection law, the court jurisprudence and the fundamental rights charter. the redress mechanism for individuals under the privacy shield is too complex and difficult to use and would therefore render itself ineffective. moreover, neither the us federal trade commission nor the us department of commerce nor the providers of alternative dispute resolution have investigatory powers essentially equivalent to those of european data protection supervisory authorities. i welcome such a regime with the us, but i believe it needs to respect the new data protection acquis of the eu, court jurisprudence, the fundamental rights charter and be completely legally watertight.
in writing. ‒ the privacy shield decision, adopted by the commission, is an improvement to the safe habour decision. however, many changes are necessary to since the text, as it is, does not fulfil the criteria laid down for adequacy decisions in the eu data protection law, the court jurisprudence and the fundamental rights charter.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for a resolution on transatlantic data flows is an excellent example of the political parties of this house working together. while we recognise and welcome the commission and the us administration’s efforts to reach an agreement, some concerns remain especially in relation to bulk data collection, access to data by the us authorities, a very complex redress mechanism and the role of the ombudsman. through this resolution we urge the commission to deal with these issues as soon as possible because it hinders commercial exchanges with one of our largest trade and investment partners. additionally, it is necessary to submit the agreement on transatlantic data flows to periodical reviews particularly in light of the new general data protection regulation, which will apply as of 2018. i endorsed this resolution that sent a clear but also reasonable and constructive message to the commission, to our us partners and to all member states.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the united states have agreed on a new framework for transatlantic data flows: the eu-us privacy shield. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that highlights the importance of the privacy shield framework enabling member states to examine and investigate claims related to the protection of the rights to privacy and family life under the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the right to privacy of our personal data is a hard-earned asset, a living guarantee of our status as european citizens, residents of democratic states. in a delicate security context, where the issue of terrorist threats is a daily reality, the transfer of relevant data between states is crucial. in this context, it is of particular importance that the exchange of information be regulated as clearly as possible by the adopted report, especially as we are dealing with a data flow that ensures close commercial and legal links in order to ensure economic development and the safety of citizens. i also appreciate that the report takes into account the 'privacy shield' mechanism which must meet international human rights standards.
in writing. ‒ the so-called privacy shield has been called into question in the same ways its predecessor, the safe harbour decision was. serious issues about fundamental rights and data protection law are at stake here. any agreement made with third countries must fully respect, and not undermine, the provisions of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ information has become a vital component of today's society, especially in a context where most of our decisions are based on how well informed we are. the decisive role of information is also highlighted by the importance of information structures in ensuring global security. the rise of global terrorism has raised the issue of collaboration between relevant actors in the information field. the most relevant case in this respect is the cooperation between the european union and the united states in the field of transfers of personal data. the initial agreement between the two parties in this sensitive area, also known as the 'safe area', was rejected by the court of justice of the european union as not complying with european standards for the protection of personal data and privacy. the adoption of a new agreement, known as the 'privacy shield', has shifted the focus somewhat, but there are still issues with respect to compliance with the standards of the european data protection supervisor. in these circumstances, the agreement needs to be amended to comply with european law, the case law of the court of justice of the eu and the charter of fundamental rights. for this reason i support the rejection of this resolution, in order to clarify outstanding issues concerning the legitimate rights of european citizens.
mr president, the classic centralized energy system is a thing of the past. we're moving towards a decentralized, flexible, efficient, renewable energy-based system. the commission's communication on the new agreement for energy consumers is based on three pillars: better information for consumers to consume less, both energy and money; also the second pillar: more choice for consumers between heating options, for example, and the third pillar: maintaining the highest level of consumer protection. i support this report. we need to look at how we define energy poverty at union level, given that each country has different energy needs, given that the minimum income per capita differs from one country to another, or given that countries define the idea of reasonable costs differently. i hope that we will find a resolution, as i said, of energy poverty at union level that will bring us to implement this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers and industrial consumers should be treated in a completely different context. the ongoing energy transition is leading to a shift from an energy system based on traditional centralised generation to a more decentralised, energy-efficient, but also more flexible and based largely on renewable energy sources. as regards the costs of switching to a new market structure in certain member states, the report draws the attention of the european commission and invites it to take these costs into account in terms of accessibility and competitiveness, with the ultimate objective of an economy based on 100% renewable energy sources. i voted in favour of the report on 'new benefits for energy consumers' because i believe that support for new types of energy, in particular renewable energy, is necessary for much better economic development both in the member states and in the eu.
in writing. ‒ taking into account all the technological developments that have taken place in recent years and the objective of having an economy based on 100% renewable energy sources that europe proposes, i support this report which highlights the need for a new organisation of the energy market. the european union must be a model for the world in making the internal energy market more efficient and in pursuing a forward-looking climate change policy. the main beneficiaries of this new energy policy must be citizens, who, through access to new technologies, will be able to reduce their bills and actively participate in the market through the efficient management of energy consumption. installing heating controls and thermostats can have a significant impact on energy consumption, but only if coupled with a serious housing rehabilitation project that many european cities need. people will not only save money, but they will make a significant contribution to reducing energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ as volatility in energy costs can have major repercussions on consumers, it is important that the european union and the member states have a firm policy to decentralise energy systems and increase efficiency and flexibility through the diversification of resources. in addition, improving and strengthening connections with member states and partner countries should be a priority for the development of bi-directional flows at each cross-border interconnection. reducing monopoly and encouraging citizens' participation, individually or collectively, in the energy market can contribute to the eradication of energy poverty and to consumer protection through the provision of stable, sustainable, affordable energy and energy-efficient products, services and buildings. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the effects of instability in energy policies are felt at the level of the well-being of european citizens. i have thus expressed the need to put the citizen at the centre of european energy policies, by developing functional energy systems based on collaboration between local authorities, municipalities and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the consumer perspective of the energy union and the rapporteur has chosen to focus her report on the issues of ensuring the energy market benefits citizens, ensuring an inclusive energy system by empowering consumers to produce their own energy, promoting the development of demand-side management and addressing the causes of energy poverty. i support the inclusion, in the report, of a call for a definition of energy poverty at eu level, focusing on the idea that access to affordable energy is a basic social right; the request for the commission to prioritise measures to alleviate energy poverty in upcoming legislative proposals and present a dedicated action plan by mid-2017; and the call for a ban on doorstep-selling by energy suppliers/retailers. considering the urgent need to tackle energy poverty and to challenge big energy suppliers, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. i think we need an energy market that works for the benefit of the citizens. this has not yet been achieved because in many member states the retail energy market has not led to a decrease in retail prices. captive consumers citizens have a low level of change of supplier. i am pleased that the report highlights the need to look at aggressive tax planning. i believe that a joint effort by the commission and the member states is needed to connect all consumers, regardless of where they live: urban, rural, mountain. i support the report's provision on transparency and clarity of consumer contracts and invoices. the energy system in the single market must be conducive to social inclusion. the commission should take into account the recommendations in the report on reducing barriers to the opening of new production capacity from own sources simplifying and shortening redemption procedures.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report since i strongly believe that the emphasis in the energy union should fall on european citizens. europe’s main concern should be on tackling energy poverty and challenging the big energy suppliers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on new benefits for energy consumers because energy market liberalisation and integration can only be implemented by taking into account the level of real competition on the market and consumers' access, in particular households' access to more than one supplier. i believe that the phasing out of regulated energy prices for consumers should take into account the actual level of competition on the market in the context of the european union strategy, which should ensure that consumers have access to secure energy prices. in addition, consumers should have easy access to information on their consumption patterns, together with the supplier's recommendations on the best tariff. i ask the commission to take the necessary measures in the next legislative proposal to ensure that the benefits of the increased level of interconnection of national networks are not passed on to distribution system operators but are directly transformed into benefits for final consumers. improvements in the level of interconnection of networks should have a positive effect on energy prices for consumers and therefore avoid the transfer of benefits to distribution system operators only.
in writing. ‒ the report on ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’ brought to our attention the scale of the problem of poor access to modern energy services by our most vulnerable category of citizens, in particular those having two jobs, single parents and elderly people. these alarming findings determine us as policymakers to frame affordable energy as a basic social right, asking for simplified bills that should mention clearly tariffs and offers on the market, banning door-step selling and demanding the end of termination fees when switching to cheaper suppliers. i voted in favour of this report, which carries on our group’s diligent struggle conveyed in the s&d manifesto - fighting energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ one of the most important goals of the european union is to achieve an economy based on 100% renewables, which can be achieved only by reducing energy consumption, making full use of the ‘energy efficiency first/first fuel’ principle and prioritising energy savings and demand side measures over the supply in order to achieve our climate goals in line with the paris agreement, energy security, competitiveness and lower consumer bills. i have voted for this report that should ensure an inclusive energy by empowering citizens to take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy-efficient.
in writing. ‒ the energy union should put the interests of current and future generations of citizens first and provide citizens with stable, accessible, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as energy-efficient products, buildings and services. it should also contribute to the eradication of energy poverty, protect consumers against abusive, non-competitive and unfair practices by market actors and enable them to fully exercise their rights. as s&d itre coordinator, i stress that we need to create favourable conditions to ensure a functioning and competitive internal energy market, providing consumers with choices and transparent and clear access to information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it has the interest of the consumer as its focal point. empowering consumers and enabling them to become actively involved in the energy market by providing them with comprehensive, clear and transparent information about energy prices, suppliers etc. is key to creating an energy union, which is affordable, fair and inclusive. implementing the energy transition, that is, the shift towards energy based on efficiency, flexibility and renewables is vital if we want to cut energy consumption. in this context, i welcome the idea of encouraging, through policy, a behavioural change among citizens, giving them the tools to become ‘prosumers’ who either individually or collectively participate directly in the energy market for example by generating, storing or trading their own renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ energy poverty remains a serious problem which must be addressed by effective policies. it should be possible for people to compare prices and switch supplier without incurring penalties in order to take advantage of the internal energy market. eu policies and structural funds should be more focussed on dealing with energy poverty and supporting important cost-saving measures such as energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the achievement of the energy union is one of the european union's objectives for the period ahead. however, we must not forget that the main beneficiaries of this project must be european citizens. energy suppliers currently charge high prices at national level because the common energy market has not yet been achieved and because they still benefit from the high concentration of national markets. this keeps european consumers captive to large energy monopolies, without the possibility to switch suppliers and benefit from such better prices. this leads to the idea that there is a 'energy poverty' at european level, which must be tackled by firm action by the european institutions. a commission action plan is needed to combat this negative phenomenon at union level and to encourage energy efficiency in buildings. in addition, small unconventional energy producers should not be discriminated against against against large producers within member states. the european union must be a shield for consumers against the abuses of the big energy producers and suppliers. that is why i support this necessary initiative.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis that has engulfed the eu has increased the number of citizens threatened with poverty and social exclusion. according to the latest statistics, about 16.6% of the eu population aged 28 is considered to be at risk of poverty after social transfers, and women are at a higher risk than men, with a difference of over one percentage point, figures that hide many differences between member states. i welcome the fact that the problem of poverty and social exclusion of women is the focus of parliament's attention and that numerous resolutions have been adopted calling for the causes and consequences of the many facets of this precarious situation to be tackled. while i support the need for continued action to achieve equality between women and men, i have in mind the christian values which, in my view, must take precedence in decision-making at this level, which is why i spoke out against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, european commission reports indicated that austerity policies exacerbated gender inequality, resulting in both wage discrepancies with a subsequent impact on pensions and survivors, and high unemployment, thus causing the phenomenon of feminization of poverty. as there is a strong link between poverty, work-life balance and the labour market, this report draws attention to discrimination, the risk of marginalisation and social exclusion of various categories of women. in order to combat these phenomena and reduce segregation, abuse at work and domestic violence, i would like to stress the importance of accessible and high-quality public services in the areas of health, education, social security and justice. the eu and the member states must therefore promote respect for the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment, democratic values, tolerance, social responsibility and the achievement of social dialogue in the fight against precarious working conditions. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that inequality and poverty require a holistic approach involving national, european and private structures. i therefore affirm the importance of the european commission introducing a robust social dimension and a gender perspective in the objectives of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe it is about time we put a stop to female poverty. women are the first victims of the austerity policies and the economic crisis, passing on the poverty cycle to the next generations and their children. i support the call for use of an eu instrument to invest in social infrastructures (namely childcare and care for dependents) and better work/life arrangements, and to ensure women stay in or join the labour market and break the vicious circle of poverty. it is fundamental to allow for a better reconciliation of private and professional life. therefore, member states should introduce family-friendly working arrangements. access to high-quality early childhood education and affordable care is important to encourage women to enter and stay in the labour market and to make women more economically independent. finally i support the call on the commission to take action to increase women’s participation in the labour market, to promote the employment of women and the integration of marginalised women into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis in the eu has produced, among other things, large disparities in the number of men and women at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of this report to support joint efforts by all eu member states on gender discrimination, equal opportunities and opportunities in areas such as employment, social security, wages, education, childcare, culture and poverty reduction.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report which it would have been better not to have had reasons to adopt in europe, in 2016. poverty is particularly acute for women for reasons that should have no place in our society. member states need to ensure social and economic security for women, to secure equal access to decent payment schemes, a fair inclusion in the labour market, and income and fiscal obligations in order to reduce the gender gap. we need to aim at measures that are based on the integration of the gender perspective, in general, as well as the implementation of fitting measures with adequate institutional and financial support at all levels.
in writing. ‒ the gender perspective is about women in society, about the ways women and men interact and their ability to access resources and opportunities in their areas depending on whether they are a woman or a man. the matter of female poverty and the social exclusion of women has been of great importance to the european parliament. i have voted for this report that identifies the ongoing inequalities that women suffer and highlights the efforts needed to be made by the european union and its member states to them all, without distinction of gender, equal opportunities in the files of social security, employment, education, childcare and culture.
in writing. ‒ member states should give priority to reconciling private and professional life by introducing family-friendly forms of work organisation. unfortunately, the lack of quality and affordable care for children, dependants or the elderly, and in particular day care, nursery and long-term care institutions, contributes to the gender gap in employment, remuneration and pensions. we call for the optimisation of the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf), for priority to be given to the creation of public and private childcare and other dependent care infrastructures, and for the flexibility mechanism to be used to finance the education and care of very young children. the commission should allocate specific resources, through a co-financing mechanism, to promote incentives for specific areas that do not have childcare and support services and for areas where the employment rate of women is extremely low. we invite the commission to carry out an impact assessment on minimum income systems in the eu and to consider further measures that take into account the economic and social conditions in each member state, as well as to assess whether these systems enable households to meet their basic personal needs.
in writing. ‒ in today’s europe both men and women are at risk of living in poverty. women still, however, suffer more than their male counterparts from gender structural disadvantages that affect their ability to create financially independent and stable existences for themselves and for their children. i support this resolution because it stresses that member states have to take action in order to change the status quo and move more women out of a position of social marginalisation, for example through investing in education and training, improving child/elderly care options, creating quality jobs for women and by closing the gender pay and pension gap.
in writing. ‒ according to the commission, in 2015, women earned on average 16% less per hour than men for the same work. implicitly these wage differences lead to lower pensions for women and often make women poor. another sad reality is that women's pensions in the eu are 39% lower than men's. at the same time, women who have been housewives do not have pensions and are dependent on family members. that is why i voted for the arena report, which calls for combating poverty among women and for equal pay for women and men in the same type of work.
in writing. ‒ in the eu 7 million more women live in poverty than men, bringing the total number up to 65 million women living in poverty (eurostat). worldwide, women earn only 10% of the world’s income and own less than 1% of the world’s property (unhcr). however, these low figures are not reflected in the workforce, as women work two—thirds of the world’s working hours and produce half of the world’s food. female poverty is caused by factors such as pay and pension gaps, which are at 16.3% and 39%, respectively, gender stereotypes and lack of work—life balance. this report highlights the importance of gender—balanced working environments and urges member states to introduce family—friendly working arrangements. furthermore, the commission is asked to bring new proposals for maternity, parental care and paternity leaves and to increase women’s participation in the labour market. i support this report and i believe that women and girls have to be empowered in all economic and social sectors, in order to break the cycle of poverty for future generations.
mr president, the creation of the single market was made possible by the existence of a common objective, namely the elimination of barriers to trade. we have non-tariff barriers in the european union at the moment, which result in a burden or a cost for companies that want to enter the market, they bear most of these barriers; and i am referring to the complexity of the current vat regime, the tax agreements between some member states and multinational companies, all of which can be considered non-tariff barriers, unjustified and costing the citizen a lot because the citizen pays more for goods and services. the lack of information on the quality of support services and online procedures, for example, are again non-tariff barriers. they also represent barriers to competitiveness in each member state and in the union's single market. the completion of the single market for the free movement of goods and services, as well as for public procurement and the digital economy, is estimated to bring in over eur 600 billion.
in writing. ‒ a significant achievement of the eu is the creation of the single market, which was made possible by cooperation and a shared goal of removing barriers to trade. tariff barriers were successfully removed 50 years ago, but the challenge to remove non-tariff barriers continues and is what drives single market initiatives today. in many respects, the approach is consistent with actions taken in international trade, and while tariff barriers are easy to remove, the removal of non-tariff barriers is the most difficult challenge. the removal of non-tariff barriers will directly help eu businesses, with consumers as the ultimate beneficiaries. the removal of this barrier is therefore in the interest of all member states and of the european parliament. i voted in favour of the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market because i believe that it is necessary to remove the non-tariff barrier as soon as possible in order to be able to support businesses, but in particular to be able to benefit consumers throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ in 1992, the european union launched the concept of the 'single market', removing non-tariff barriers to trade in goods and opening up trade in services within the union. non-tariff barriers are measures or policies that restrict trade and have a similar effect on tariffs. today, the single market for services accounts for 70% of the european economy and only 20% of intra-eu trade, with the free movement of goods and services still hampered by non-tariff barriers. the removal of trade barriers will stimulate the economies of the participating countries by increasing export earnings and increasing the variety of products and services offered to consumers at lower prices as a result of competition from imports. we need greater involvement of member states in identifying areas where priority action is needed to maintain and develop the single market. i support this report because i believe that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help eu businesses, will boost the european economy and of course the ultimate beneficiaries will be consumers.
in writing. ‒ although the launch of the single market should have led to the abolition of unjustified tariff and non-tariff barriers, it is noted that they continue to exist in various forms. operational rules applied to suppliers of products and services may unduly or disproportionately restrict the activity of those operators, leading to de facto discrimination against them. in addition, non-tariff barriers that are not justified by proportionality, consumer protection, the environment or workers' rights create market gaps that can be to the detriment of citizens, whose access to certain goods and services becomes unaffordable. without pursuing the aim of reducing market regulation, it is necessary to harmonise those national rules and make information on divergent national regulatory requirements accessible through the development of e-governance systems. since uniform application at european level is a sine qua non criterion for the proper functioning of the market and the mobility of professionals, early examination by the european commission of eu legislative and policy action in emerging areas is necessary. i voted in favour of this report to reiterate the importance of solidarity in the framework of the european joint initiative, which, under article 3 teu, balances economic freedoms and social policies, affirming the union's status as a 'social market economy' that 'promotes social justice and protection'.
in writing. ‒ an insufficient or incorrect application of existing eu rules still hinders intra-eu trade and constitutes an obstacle to growth. however, a clear distinction has to be made between non—tariff barriers and other rules both at eu and member states level that are lawfully in place and which serve a public policy objective. i welcome achievement that we managed to introduce in the report, such as the balanced definition of non-tariff barriers as applied to the internal market, the clear recognition of the full respect of the right to regulate in the public interest, a balanced reference to the so-called ‘gold-plating’, which does not affect the right to lawfully adopt progressive legislation in case of minimum harmonisation directives, and finally the explicit mention of the importance of public services and the fact that related legislation does not constitute a non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ this report on non-tariff barriers in the single market applies the external trade concept on ntb inside the eu, looking at remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained in the vote on this report on non-tariff barriers in the single market.
in writing. ‒ businesses and citizens face major obstacles to cross-border activities in the single market due to the lack of availability and quality of information, support services and online procedures, which lead to a considerable administrative burden and significant compliance costs. the monitoring of barriers and costs is fragmented and unsystematic, and there is a lack of quantification and clear identification of barriers and costs, which makes it difficult to prioritise measures. member states should regard the single market as a common initiative to be maintained in a coordinated and collective manner and as a condition for increasing the competitiveness of the eu economy. the ultimate burden of unjustified non-tariff barriers is borne by consumers, as new entities are denied access to the internal markets and face high costs, lower quality and a reduced range of options.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because it stresses member states protectionism regarding trade competition and lack of consistent enforcement of existing regulation as key obstacles, preventing the single market from becoming fully integrated. that is not to say that non-tariff barriers (ntbs) should be completely removed, as the resolution rightly states, however, it remains important to identify the cases in which ntbs are inflexible, discriminatory or work against the principles of proportionality. indeed, removal of some ntbs would significantly benefit eu consumers who would have access to cheaper and greater variety of goods and services.
in writing. ‒ non-tariff barriers are measures to free trade, composed of instruments such as licences, quotas, standards and other administrative and bureaucratic measures designed to regulate flows in accordance with the interests of an economic actor. the completion of the european union's single market has led to the removal of tariff barriers between member states, but non-tariff barriers continue to represent important obstacles to intra-community trade flows. this is affecting economic growth and the interests of european consumers. at the same time, however, it is true that a number of such barriers derive from the principle of subsidiarity itself, which allows regulation at different levels, including national and local, through public policy and in the public interest. some of these regulations may constitute temporary non-tariff barriers in an attempt to protect the interests of citizens of certain member states. respect for the rights of workers cannot be included in the category of non-tariff barriers. they must not, however, become protectionist measures that are opposed to the concept of the single market. member states should work together to gradually harmonise their practices, as far as possible, with a view to ensuring the prosperity of their citizens.
in writing. the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market finds that, despite the elimination of tariff barriers on 1 july 1968, the free movement of goods and services in the single market has continued to be affected by non-tariff barriers, such as technical rules and regulatory and non-national regulatory requirements applying to suppliers of products, service providers and conditions of service or bureaucracy. i voted for this report which considers that non-tariff barriers are a disproportionate or discriminatory regulatory action, especially for new firms wishing to enter the single market. the rapporteur stresses that in particular the lack of implementation and divergent application of the services directive constitute obstacles to the single market and calls on the commission to remove them.
in writing. ‒ in the process of european integration, completing the single market has always been and will always remain a key political priority. the context has changed radically in recent years and the challenges we face are becoming more pressing and have a significant impact on the internal market. i welcome the report's provision that there should be mandatory labelling of non-agricultural products such as handicrafts and industrial products, thus providing consumers with key information and ensuring the same quality of products in different member states. this initiative is extremely beneficial for romanian products, whose price-quality ratio is extremely advantageous for buyers. in this way, romanian products will make a difference on the european market, which is why i voted in favour of the single market strategy report.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of europe's greatest achievements, designed to allow the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. it offers opportunities for businesses and professionals as well as for consumers. the digital single market strategy adopted by the european commission on 6 may 2015, aiming to boost growth and jobs while removing the obstacles faced every day by eu citizens and businesses, such as geo-blocking or inefficiency in cross-border parcel delivery, inability to connect to a number of available online services or limiting digital services to national borders, will first and foremost deliver better regulation and better enforcement. i believe that the european parliament can make an important contribution to making the single market strategy more attractive by making concrete proposals in various areas, focusing efforts on achieving a more innovative and modern, strengthened and fairer single market.
in writing. ‒ the challenges of contemporary society demonstrate the need for constant adjustment and rethinking of the european strategy so that the social economy is a genuine factor of economic and social development in europe. striking a balance between the market economy and social and environmental protection mechanisms could have the effect of tackling unemployment, poverty, inequalities, social exclusion and wage dumping. at the same time, the european single market, by promoting respect for fundamental social rights, legal mobility and improved working and living conditions, will be an important element of solidarity and cooperation between member states. without aiming at total market liberalisation, both unjustified barriers and justified barriers should be removed and information on them centralised in order to further the achievement of a fair single market as a common good of all citizens, workers, economic operators and member states. i voted in favour of this report because i wanted to reiterate the importance of striking a balance between fundamental economic and social rights. economic growth and the promotion of quality jobs must aim at the rapid achievement of a social market economy based on knowledge and sustainable growth, while maintaining an effective system of social protection.
in writing. ‒ i welcome a new, holistic vision on the single market based on green, knowledge-based social market economy. the report will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection. i support the call for measures to help smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups, without providing opportunities for dishonest businesses to circumvent existing rules, lower workers’ and consumer standards; concerning refit, i support the introduction of measures which lower the administrative burdens and compliance costs on businesses, and which ensure high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection; moreover, i welcome the inclusion of objective criteria and indicators for a definition of ‘innovative’ start-ups, smes. finally, i support the call on the commission to come up with a definition on social economy enterprises, which is currently non-existent.
in writing. ‒ we need a new holistic vision on the single market based on a green knowledge-based social market economy, which will improve the well-being of european citizens. we need practical measures which will guarantee growth, the creation of sustainable jobs, equal treatment and social inclusion, and a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ within the european integration process the achievement of the single market has always been a fundamental political priority. i have voted for this report that calls for a more pragmatic and incisive approach to a more ambitious single market strategy that will be more modern and innovative.
in writing. ‒ to protect the objectives of the single market and to generate growth and jobs, the eu needs to strengthen competitiveness. unjustified barriers to the single market need to be removed in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in competitiveness, sustainable economic growth, research, innovation, job creation, consumer diversity and new economic models. given that social enterprises represent 10-12% of all enterprises in the eu, they should be promoted in the framework of internal market policies. we invite the commission, in continuing its support through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme and the esi funds, to consider other ways to facilitate access to programmes and other instruments, especially for micro-enterprises, for example by reducing application periods to six months, simplifying the applicable procedures, and improving the visibility of european funding.
in writing. ‒ creating a truly integrated single market in the eu remains a top policy priority. as the resolution rightly highlights, unemployment – and in particular youth unemployment – makes the goal of a single market more important than ever, while it also represents a significant challenge. the resolution discusses the benefits of the single market strategy and highlights the positive role that the european parliament can play in suggesting even more specific policy initiatives under the umbrella of the single market strategy, such as strengthening the competitiveness of businesses by reducing administrative burdens, supporting smes vital to the european economy and protecting and harmonising consumer rights in the single market. i endorse this resolution on the single market strategy because these above—mentioned initiatives are all steps necessary to take if we want to create a deeper unified market and ensure economic prosperity across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the single market strategy must emphasise the social market economy, ensuring social inclusion, delivering high standards of environmental protection and upholding workers’ rights. improved health and safety regulations in the workplace will contribute to better public health and harmonised standards across the eu will reduce persistent health inequalities. integrating people with disabilities must also be a key aim. a single market strategy with these priorities will help create a fairer, more productive, and healthier society.
in writing. ‒ the single market is the engine of the european union's economic development and its main comparative advantage over other international players. the strengthening of the single market is therefore a strategic objective of the community institutions. the european commission's single market strategy, adopted last year, focuses on increasing opportunities for citizens and businesses through the vat action plan, the proposal on business insolvency, the services passport, preventing discrimination to the detriment of consumers, regulating public procurement, intellectual property rights and market monitoring. in concrete terms, the strategy includes provisions on strengthening the social market economy by ensuring social inclusion, creating sustainable jobs, consumer protection, measures to encourage smes and micro-enterprises, combating tax evasion, environmental protection, development of social economy enterprises, combating the underground economy, facilitating access to the patent system, protecting agricultural products of certified geographical origin. all these provisions create the conditions for the development of a green, knowledge-based economy, focused on the prosperity of european citizens and guaranteeing equal treatment for all. i therefore support the adoption of the present report.
in writing. i voted on the report on the digital single market strategy. i welcome the concern expressed by the rapporteur to remove unjustified barriers in the single market, to achieve concrete and rapid results in competitiveness, sustainable economic growth, research, innovation, job creation, diversity for consumers and new economic models. the report also welcomes the focus of the commission's single market strategy on business support, especially for smes. the rapporteur believes that the strategy can provide new opportunities for smes, which are the backbone of eu economies.
mr president, this is not the first time we have made this request, and the reason is the same, namely that this parliament has traditionally taken a decision on human rights issues on thursday afternoons, we even called it 'the afternoon of the human rights debate'. this debate was moved - for reasons we do not fully understand - in the morning, and then other debates were recently introduced in the afternoon, in place of this exchange on the question of human rights emergencies. so we simply ask that we go back to what we were doing until recently.
member of the commission. – mr president, millions of people around the world live with hiv/aids. we have come a long away in fighting this serious disease. however, if we are to succeed in ending the aids epidemic by 2030, we must speed up and beef up our efforts to prevent hiv/aids, to give everybody a chance of early diagnosis and to provide appropriate treatment to all those who need it. the commission strongly welcomes the united nations high-level meeting on hiv/aids to be held in june in new york, and supports the calls for a faster response and renewed commitment. aids continues to strongly affect sub-saharan africa. two out of three people who become infected live there. young girls are particularly at risk and, right here in our continent, in eastern europe, hiv infections are still on the rise. the european union has a role to play in bringing the aids epidemic to an end at home, in our neighbourhood and in other partner countries, showing solidarity and providing additional support to those countries that need it most – low income ones in particular. the eu channels its support to aids prevention and treatment through the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. the fund has helped to provide hiv treatment to over eight million people. the eu and its member states collectively provide half of the global fund resources: more than eur 1.5 billion has already been contributed from the european union budget. there are plans to pledge another eur 470 million for the 2017—2019 period at the pledging conference in september. the sustainable development goals of last year mark a welcome shift from a focus on diseases to a more integrated approach to addressing people’s health needs. if we want to end aids and many other diseases, we must help third countries develop the capacity to provide basic healthcare, clean water and sanitation to all their citizens. this needs to be a collaborative effort. domestic funding for this purpose, particularly in middle-income countries, also needs to be increased. in the eu we have made good progress: they have in particular eliminated mother-to-child transmission, and thus exposure of children to hiv/aids. new infections are declining. treatment coverage and access to care is high. a rather significant outstanding challenge remains: over 300 000 people in the eu need lifelong treatment; 30 000 people still get infected every year. even so, hiv can be prevented. hiv/aids treatment costs billions of euros. the commission works closely with member states and civil society to strengthen prevention, improve testing and support universal access to treatment and care. we must reach out in particular to eastern europe and central asia, where the epidemic is still on the rise. again, this needs to be a collaborative effort. tailor—made action for each of the most affected countries needs to be intensified.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i welcome the presence of the commissioner in the plenary and share many of the views he has expressed. the new report by the united nations secretary-general, 'accelerating the response to end the aids epidemic', warns that the major gains made in the last 15 years in the fight against this threat to public health could be lost if no action is taken in the next five years. the report also urges states to respond by increasing investment and strengthening action, particularly in the area of prevention. i remind you that since the beginning of the epidemic, nearly 71 million people have been infected with the hiv virus, half of whom have died over the years because of lack of timely detection, treatment or proper care. there has been encouraging progress, especially since 2011. access to antiretroviral treatment has been provided to over 15 million people living with hiv, leading to significant increases in life expectancy, decreased deaths and access to treatment. however, the impact of social factors such as poverty, inequality and discrimination, especially among vulnerable populations, should not be overlooked. and when i say 'vulnerable population' i mean the categories of people who should no longer suffer from discrimination and, of course, i mean children first. statistics show that between 2000 and 2014, their numbers decreased, but discrepancies still exist, especially in developing countries. i think we need to have a much more ambitious plan of action, we need to target vulnerable populations, we need to create a social protection tool, we need to ensure that people living with hiv have access to lifelong treatment and adequate health care.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for a fruitful debate. many of you mentioned very important issues: early diagnosis, early treatment and prevention measures, triple-90, national drug policies, human rights dimensions and social determinants in the world, poverty and sexual exploitation, access to treatment, pricing and patent issues, the reproductive health and sexual rights of girls and women, the fight against stigmatisation, education and prophylaxis, research and investment in treatment, and socially affordable prices. thank you very much indeed for your contributions. all those things are very important. it is clear that the fight against hiv is not over, despite the amazing progress we have made over the past decades. it is also clear that we will one day succeed together. hiv affects all countries, regardless of their capacities to respond to the challenge. hiv also affects the most vulnerable and does not stop at national borders. that is why we need collective action and solidarity with the vulnerable living among us and those living in countries that cannot afford universal healthcare coverage. the commission will continue to support eu action to address hiv within the eu, in the neighbouring countries and across the world, using all the tools at its disposal. in that sense, i am confident that the united nations high-level meeting later this week will serve to send a strong and united message from the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank the other political groups for the excellent cooperation we have had and commissioner andriukaitis for being with us today to discuss the policy coherence of the union for development (udp). cpd is a subject that is both very important, complex and poorly understood. it is about the coherence of all our policies, and so it is tempting to want to deal with everything. it seems to me that parliament's report has not succumbed to this temptation and has tried to focus on a few key elements, both to move the debate forward and to contribute to the implementation of the cpd. within the union, coherence is very important: the different institutions want to be consistent with each other; we also want our policies to be consistent with each other. the most difficult question is how to implement this coherence in the service of development so that we do not undo on the one hand what we are doing on the other. the commission's 2015 report is positive: there has been considerable progress, which of course needs to be both continued and strengthened. in the resolution of parliament we have concentrated on two essential points. firstly, there is the interaction between the cpd and the 2030 development agenda. while other international actors have already started to think deeply about the transformation of the cpd into 'policy coherence for sustainable development', the european union has yet to adopt a clear position on this point. the drafting of this report and the workshop we organised were an opportunity for parliament to launch this process of reflection. the fact that the european commission is embarking on a similar process could call into question the very principle of the dpc and the biennial report, placing it in a broader perspective. designing the cpd as part of the 2030 development agenda also means rethinking the development goals at the global level to move away from this donor-receiver approach and towards goals that apply to all. the concept of cpd is still unknown at international level. we will not succeed in integrating cpd into the sustainable development goals if the other key development actors - the us, japan, brics - do not join in this effort. the union has a key role to play. it must continue to promote the universalisation of the concept of dpc among our partners. the european parliament must be involved in this process, as it is now an important player in the dpc. the second crucial element in this year's report is to find ways of improving the use and effectiveness of the instruments of the cpd. i think it is important to stress that the implementation of the cpd is still laborious, but it should also not be forgotten that it is a complex exercise. i did not call for the creation of new instruments for the dpc, because the necessary instruments already exist. but we must find a way of using these tools in the most consistent and effective way possible. this requires that the responsibilities for implementing the cpd are clear and unquestionable. the only way to give the dpc a decisive boost is to put it on the agenda of a european summit. i know that the idea may be laughable, but a few years ago, people also laughed at the idea of organising a european defence summit. if we are to be serious about the progress of the cpd, it must be discussed at the highest political level. a european summit would also create a process of reflection at interinstitutional and member state level. this summit would provide clear guidance on how to operationalize the cpd. it must be able to extricate itself from the development bubble in order to exist in other areas. it is not about development, it is about coordinating all other policies for development. so we need to think about cpd differently. since the 2013 report, new instruments have been created. i am thinking in particular of the contribution of the european union delegations to the biennial report. this exercise is a positive development, which should be extended to all delegations. in addition, given the extremely important role that heads of union delegations can play in the implementation of the spc on the ground, this issue should be included in the agenda of the annual meeting of heads of delegations in brussels. delegations have a global view of the union's policies in a given country and can therefore help us to identify inconsistencies and how to correct them. of course, i cannot mention here all the instruments of the cpd and how to improve them. we still have a lot of work to do in the area of impact studies, for example, which are not carried out systematically. but i also want to say that some of the instruments are working, and very well. i am thinking in particular of joint programming, which includes not only all the activities of the union but also the activities of the member states, to ensure greater coherence. i cannot, of course, go into all the priority areas of action in the report. should the priorities of the cpd be changed or added to? i think we will be able to answer this question once we have started the process of reflection in the framework of the implementation of the 2030 development agenda. finally, i would like to add that i wanted to emphasize this year the importance of the cpd in the union's external policy. the refugee crisis and the destabilisation facing the union in its neighbourhood have called into question its very foundations, in particular solidarity and free movement. external action is the area on which the dpc must concentrate. stabilizing our neighborhood must therefore be a top priority. we have the comprehensive approach, which is an ideal instrument for the cpd, and this approach should be further strengthened with the adoption of the comprehensive strategy this month. we must make this instrument the hallmark of the european union's external action. the comprehensive approach, when properly implemented, should also enable us to prevent crises and ensure an effective transition between a military or civilian operation and the implementation of other instruments to pursue progress on the ground. the sahel is a good example. when the union mobilizes all its tools in a region facing poverty, internal conflict and radicalisation, it can make a difference.
mr president, nowadays it is more than obvious that a coherent development policy is needed in order to successfully tackle the most urgent social problems across the globe and, what is more, to achieve peaceful, just and inclusive societies. the challenges of the past years have already shown us that building synergies between different eu policies leads to improved results. however, a coherent policy management also demands a global framework which can deal with the complexity of the task, to ensure coherence between many factors: global goals and national contexts; international agendas and processes; and between economic, social and environmental policies. the eu and its global partners have to constantly support an approach based on collaboration, mutual accountability and human rights, in order to ensure that economic, environmental and social progress will be sustainable.
mr president, nuclear disasters kill, they bring many sick generations after them, they destroy the environment and interrupt life. basically, we all remember what it was like after the chernobyl disaster. it's "before the catastrophe" and "after the catastrophe". that is why it is our job, the european union's, when a nuclear power plant is built without respecting the deadlines and perhaps with certain intentions related to our safety. we're talking today about the ostrovets power plant in belarus, built by the russians for belarus and located just fifty kilometers from the capital of lithuania. belarus says it's a good thing, that it's going to help them economically and help them reduce their dependence on russia. that's not true. it's a lie. belarus is massively dependent on russia, 90 percent of the gas comes from russia and the plant is built by russian companies with russian funding. it's about $22 billion. lithuania rightly accuses belarus of not informing it about the construction of this nuclear power plant, of not completing an environmental impact study, of not informing citizens about the influence on drinking water and many other things. for example, we only get information about this plant in ostrovetsk from other places than the belarusian authorities, and that's not normal. other states may follow. we hear the same thing happening in hungary. all with russian funding. as such, we must take care of our own safety, that of european citizens and non-europeans.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the european parliament’s report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition and of course to thank you and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs heubuch, for steering its preparation. it is in line with what the commission wants to achieve under the new alliance. together with our partners – african governments, the african union commission, the private sector and g7 members – the european union has made a commitment to promoting inclusive and sustainable agriculture-based growth. the agricultural sector in low-income countries has suffered from under-investment for decades with considerable consequences for long-term food security while also contributing to rural poverty. the investments needed to eradicate hunger are enormous. we thus have to work together with all partners. this is what we agreed under the 2030 agenda and its second sustainable development goal: to end hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition and also promote sustainable agriculture. in doing so we will need to mobilise additional resources for developing countries. this is what the new alliance is trying to do: reduce poverty and link smallholders to markets by working with the local and international private sector. the european union has been supporting the new alliance since its launch in 2012 and has since committed eur 1.2 billion in ten new alliance countries. this represents a powerful initiative to reduce rural poverty. food and nutrition security in our developing partner countries is a priority area for the commission. we want to contribute to job creation, stability, growth and sustainable development. in all our programmes under the new alliance we make sure that we are working towards this objective. the commission is a staunch supporter of the voluntary guidelines on tenure of land and of the principles for responsible investment in agriculture and food systems. within the new alliance we have developed guidance for companies on due diligence and risk management for land-based investments in agriculture. gender is also a prominent component in the new alliance. fifty-one per cent of the jobs created in 2014 benefited women. at the same time, the commission will continue to insist on a much more targeted focus on women farmers and entrepreneurs and on actions to ensure they have equal access to land and other economic resources. of course there are many challenges associated with our efforts and we are working hard to solve them. we are taking very seriously the concerns being voiced that the new alliance creates a favourable environment that mainly benefits large private sector companies to the detriment of the smallholder farmers. many of the concerns raised also here today are an integral part of the discussions with our partners in the new alliance. the european union is very sensitive towards the smallholder farmers. they play a key role in sustainable agriculture and in combating hunger and malnutrition, and they are indeed the ones that should primarily benefit from the new alliance actions. the european union is also very attentive to the plight of the most vulnerable in societies who, despite the advances made, remain susceptible to crises and shocks and will continue to need our humanitarian and development assistance. we need partnerships with the private sector that encourage businesses to put sustainable development at the core of their strategies. this is particularly relevant for inclusive and sustainable agricultural development. the only option is to work together and to act responsibly, inclusively and sustainably. this also includes more involvement of farmers in civil society and the coordination of new alliance activities. the commission will discuss and explore with all partners in the new alliance how to better advance its implementation, also in the light of the conclusions and recommendations of this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all of the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to this report on international financial reporting standards (ifrs). it is the first time that the european parliament presents its strategic view on the issue of ifrs. these standards are the bedrock of all investment decisions in the global capital markets, and of the evaluation of company management on behalf of its shareholders. for over a year, we have held many debates, seminars and hearings, with different stakeholders, standard setters, academics and experts. let me focus on the main points of this report. we think that the concept of public good for the ifrs should be clarified, as well as the potential conflict between the private nature of the iasb, the standard setter, and the public good nature of the ifrs that are applied today in more than 110 countries and jurisdictions. there are differences between how we in the european union understand the concept of true and fair view, the principles of prudence and stewardship, which are the basis of accounting standards, and the accounting setters view on this concept and principle. we insist on the need for an impact assessment for every new accounting standard or change of a current accounting standard. we think about the future of efrag, the private technical advisor of the european commission in the process of ifrs endorsement in the european union, and about the possibility on the long-term to transform efrag into a european agency. we also ask for the strengthening of the role of the european parliament, both in the process of setting accounting standards and in the endorsement process of ifrs in the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr huitema, for drafting and presenting his report on enhancing innovation and economic development in future european farm management. from a number of conversations i have had with mr huitema, i am well aware of his interest in, and support for, innovation and agriculture. indeed it is something of which i too am very supportive. the challenges facing our sector are such that a greater focus on innovation is essential, and i am pleased to say is happening. why is innovation so important? innovation allows the sector to develop new products, new production methods and services, to respond to challenges like climate change, and to address other societal challenges, particularly in the environment, as well as addressing issues around our competitiveness. we are all increasingly conscious of the need to ensure food security and of the need for a greater focus on more sustainable food production. mr huitema has outlined very effectively the main thrust of his report and the proposals that he is making. i have taken very careful note of the many actions which the commission is asked to take in relation to the issues raised, whether that is in relation to ict-based management systems, the need to reduce the use of antimicrobials, or the need to stimulate integrated pest management. in relation to those areas in which the commission is urged to act, i would like to underline the importance of subsidiarity. in many such areas, local conditions require local solutions, and the commission is not automatically best placed to address all of these issues. therefore the relevant level of policy intervention may be national or regional. i welcome the acknowledgment in the report that agriculture has always developed new practices and techniques, and i agree also that innovation is a prerequisite for maintaining this progress. perhaps it is useful to recall how innovation is addressed in the current policy mix. both rural development policy and our research policy under horizon 2020 stimulate and support innovation. horizon 2020 is the european union’s framework programme for research and innovation and a majority of support for agriculture and forestry, research and innovation, will be granted under societal challenge too, which includes food security, sustainable agriculture and forestry, marine and maritime issues, and inland water research and the bio-economy. under our work programmes in 2016 and 2017 for societal challenge 2, in the relevant part in the horizon 2020 policy, you will also see that we have already addressed many of the issues that are raised in the report. i think that under our work programmes of 2016 and 2017 you will see that horizon 2020 has the largest research budget ever, with nearly eur 80 billion funding available for 2014 until 2020, and eur 3.7 billion euros are allocated to the relevant heading: societal challenge 2. but this is co-managed and co-shared by the director general of agricultural and rural development and the director general for research and innovation. the total budget for dg agri under horizon 2020 for seven years is eur 1.5 billion. four years of horizon 2020 activities have already been programmed, from 2014 to 2017, representing on the agriculture side 71 topics for a budget of eur 617 million financing, which is financing an expected 112 projects. 14 have started in april 2015, 22 are scheduled to start in the upcoming months, with others still to be submitted. in the last three years of the horizon 2020, which is 2018-2020, will be programmed at once by september 2017. out of the 118 rural development programmes, 94 will support the eip actions in the current programing period. we also expect 3200 pilot projects to be implemented in 24 member states. i note that the draft report is concerned about a fragmented implementation of the eip under the rural development programmes. however, i believe that this is its strength. it is thanks to the subsidiarity engrained in the rural development policy that we can reach out across the whole of europe with projects that are locally appropriate. we think that the current policy mix is a good one, because you cannot have ‘one size fits all’. we should always look critically at our instruments and policies to see whether we can improve them, and i will be glad to do. last week i attended the informal meeting of european union agriculture ministers in mr huitema’s native country. while there, i and the ministers visited the stek food exhibition in eindhoven. the exhibition was dedicated to innovation in food production and consumption. while there we saw several very exciting and innovative uses of technology in crop and other food production. i think all of us were impressed with what we saw because it is representative of many of the issues you have raised here this evening: the practical application at farm level of the development of technology and the investment in and value of innovation. one needed nothing more to realise the importance of the issues that have been raised this evening in mr huitema’s report.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on this complex report. since agriculture has been around, agricultural practices have undergone changes both in structure and in the production process, and these changes have made agriculture one of the most dynamic economic sectors, with contemporary agricultural practices being state-of-the-art. considers it important to develop strategies to prevent and mitigate the negative consequences of agriculture in the european union, through the following measures: an action plan in the most affected areas, the use of plant varieties resistant to the new climate parameters, the adaptation of the agricultural calendar to the new conditions, afforestation, the construction of greenhouses, the management of water resources in agriculture, the greening of polluted land, as well as a future plan to eliminate the causes of climate change by promoting a global economy based on low co2 emissions, coupled with the promotion of energy security.
madam president, the rights to free movement and to work in the european union are inalienable rights. unfortunately, many of the honest workers and professionals who come from eastern europe are faced with the phenomenon of exploitation, and this is unacceptable. in recent years, we have seen countless cases where romanian workers have been treated as second-class citizens and have fallen victim to abuses incompatible with 21st century europe. they had no legal tools at their disposal that could have done them justice. i believe it is our duty as the european parliament to raise the alarm about the violation of rights and to ensure that the provisions of labour law are respected for all those working abroad. let's say "stop" to all forms of modern slavery. beyond information campaigns to educate european citizens about their rights and obligations, we need a horizontal european mechanism that can prevent abuses in the member states. let's not forget: romanian workers don't come to the west just because they want a decent wage. they come because they are needed in agriculture, construction, transportation, it, medicine and education. it is clear that their work adds value to the european economy.
madam president, colleagues, i welcome the united nations vision of achieving zero new hiv infections, zero discrimination and zero aids-related deaths, and i welcome the high-level meeting this week that aims to eliminate this public health threat. tb is the number one killer of people with hiv. without proper treatment, seven out of 10 people living with hiv who develop tb will die. despite this, in recent years, we have seen a withdrawal of donor support for hiv and tb programs in eastern europe and central asia, leaving many patients without access to medicines. this region is experiencing the fastest growth in hiv infections, but also a rise in chemoresistant tuberculosis. moreover, in the european union, the hiv action plan expires this year, and the tb framework action plan is obsolete. in this context, i believe that on the one hand it is time for the european union not only to have an integrated policy framework for 2016-2020 on hiv and tuberculosis - as co-infections - but on the other hand, national governments and the european commission have a responsibility to achieve a sustainable and effective transition to domestic funding for patients' access to the necessary medicines.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the abuse of child protection authorities in some european countries, which has recently affected several romanian families. this was the case in botnariu, norway, when five children were separated from their families. at the end of seven dramatic months, after protests in twenty-one countries, the botnariu family will be reunited. sadly, the barbus are now experiencing a similar drama in britain. florin barbu has been on hunger strike for two weeks in front of the european court of human rights. i call on the british authorities to respect the rights of the two children, who are romanian citizens, and i call on the european authorities to act to prevent this kind of family trauma. it is our duty to ensure a balance between the two fundamental principles: the best interests of the child, as set out in recommendation 874/1979, and the need to keep families together, as set out in article 9 of the convention on the rights of the child.
madam president, a recent study shows that one in three children aged six to nine in the european union is either obese or overweight. the cost of treating obesity problems is one tenth of the total health expenditure in europe. yet, no progress is being made to stop this trend. it's unacceptable that the fight against obesity is about strategies on paper -- absolutely nothing concrete. it takes visible action and tangible results. people need to have everything they need to avoid this phenomenon and danger: concrete information, healthy food at decent prices, protection against misleading advertising, especially in children's products. i recently proposed a pilot project to create a platform for nutrition education and education. we thought of it as an accessible source of ideas and information that parents, but also institutions like kindergartens, could use when planning their children's everyday meals. i hope my fellow mps will support this project.
madam president, commissioner, we all know that the achievement of budgetary revenue throughout the union is extremely important, with direct consequences for the security of the european area itself. tax evasion in any form should be prevented by simple and transparent measures which do not allow taxable amounts to be concealed. the main legal mechanism by which money is leaving the european economy is the use of tax havens. we all know it. in the panama papers scandal, we all saw the magnitude of the business in this area. the use of these channels indirectly contributes to undermining national economies. if the defenders of the eurozone are indeed in good faith, then they should propose packages that will stop big companies being tempted by tax haven facilities. if not, then european decision-makers must leave national laws to their own devices. solutions must therefore be found to encourage multinational companies to keep and invest profits in the countries where they are made.
madam president, i congratulate the commissioner and the commission on being in the vanguard of the efforts at global efforts to stop fiscal evasion and aggressive fiscal planning. what i would like to say is that we should be very clear that tackling fiscal evasion and aggressive fiscal planning is not possible without a global financial system and an international fiscal system. this draft directive which we will debate today is a good step in this direction. i want to draw attention to the convention on avoiding double taxation. in many cases this kind of bilateral convention has really become a convention on avoiding any taxation. in my country, for instance, an investor sold shares in a big bank and my country could not tax a single euro of capital gain. why? because the owner of the shares was a company in cyprus and in cyprus capital gains are not taxed. i want to tell you that india has started to renegotiate these kinds of conventions and we have to do the same thing.
mr president, commissioner, we must put an end to the disguise of profits by multinationals and all those who practice this method under the name of 'optimisation'. we need to introduce taxation of profits in the country where they are made. that is why we must vote on this report. i support measures to combat fraud in large companies, fraud that has led to the closure of many jobs, of smes, but also to the impoverishment of national budgets and, ultimately, to the impoverishment of citizens. commissioner, i appreciate your work, but i am surprised that you say that we should not deal with tax havens in this directive. that's wrong, commissioner! the speed with which the commission and the council are acting leaves room for continued circumvention and discrimination against smes. we must not delay. in my country there are many foreign investors, multinationals who have not paid a single euro in income tax for years. if you wanted the separate treatment of tax havens, you should have acted already. we can't put it off any longer. we need a blacklist of escapees, at european level, and we need to vote. i congratulate the rapporteur and support this report.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is an activity with a negative impact on both public health and revenues to state budgets. smuggling of cigarettes undermines tobacco control policies, favouring access to tobacco products at lower prices which generates significant revenue losses for the european union, given that the related taxes and customs duties are not paid. as a result, the union and its member states are losing more than eur 10 billion annually. the protocol to the who framework convention includes a complex set of measures, rules and policies to combat illicit trade in tobacco products, by pursuing a safer process in the tobacco supply chain, by creating a global traceability and tracing system. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ensuring the highest standards of public health protection is paramount and that enhanced international cooperation is needed to combat illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation’s protocol on the illicit trade in tobacco products is designed to eliminate the producing, shipping, receiving, being in possession of, distributing, selling or buying of illicit tobacco. this will be achieved by targeting the supply chain, through the creation of an international tracking and tracing system, strengthening licensing and record-keeping requirements, and increasing the regulation of sales and international transit. to curb the existing illicit trade, the protocol will introduce dissuasive law enforcement measures and enhance international cooperation. since, tobacco products have severe public health impacts worldwide and are toxic, mutagenic, carcinogenic and addictive, i consider it of the utmost importance to ensure that there will be no further increase in consumption of tobacco products and so i vote for the recommendation that the european union should immediately ratify this protocol. decreasing the availability, affordability or attractiveness of tobacco products, and by further developing stricter tobacco control, the european union can better protect health, healthcare systems and national budgets from the damage caused by tobacco consumption.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health treaty. illicit trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity with serious public health implications. the eu estimates that member states lose around €10 billion a year in taxes and duties due to this trade. this means that about 1 out of 10 cigarettes is sold illegally. i voted for the establishment of an effective global regime to combat this phenomenon which affects the lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decisions 2013/744/eu and 2013/745/eu, the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control was signed on 20 december 2013, subject to its conclusion at a later date. the aim of the protocol is the elimination of all forms of illicit trade. in order to address this, the protocol targets the supply chain of tobacco products via a series of measures by governments: creation of a global tracking and tracing regime and establishment of a global information sharing point. the protocol will establish offences, address liability and seizure payments as well and the disposal of confiscated products. the protocol concedes the irreconcilable conflict between the tobacco’s industry’s interests and public health’s interests. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ this report is very important from the side of public health as well as fight against tax evasion. i welcome the achievement of the first multilateral initiative to tackle illicit trade of tobacco and cigarette smuggling by securing supply chains.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation (who) framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health treaty created in response to the globalisation of the tobacco epidemic. i support this recommendation that aims to eliminate illicit trade of tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling that is a criminal activity posing a serious threat to public health.
in writing. ‒ the illicit trade in tobacco needs to be tackled at global level with a series of measures including tracking and tracing applicable to the supply chain of tobacco products. i voted in support of this protocol which will establish and define offences and liability issues, and address the disposal of confiscated products. this is an important step in the ratification of this who protocol, and i urge all parties to complete this process as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ the use of tobacco products is a practice that poses serious risks to the health of citizens. the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (who fctc) is the first international framework document to address the tobacco epidemic, adopted in 2005. smuggling of cigarettes produced outside the eu is a criminal activity that undermines control policies and brings huge financial losses due to non-payment of taxes and customs duties, estimated at over eur 90 billion per year. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was adopted on the basis of the ccct in november 2012 and is the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. however, its entry into force is conditional on its ratification by 40 states, and eu-wide ratification would be an important step in this direction. the protocol aims to establish a global system for tracing and tracing tobacco products, licensing, record-keeping, regulating internet sales, defining offences and mutual customs administrative assistance. i believe that ratification of this protocol will help to combat the trafficking of tobacco products and to protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry is a fundamental economic sector for the european union in view of its financial and social implications. this sector provides jobs for 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the union's gross domestic product. international regulatory cooperation is necessary to strengthen a competitive industrial base in europe in order to promote a competitive, transparent and stable economic environment that respects the highest standards of safety and health protection. therefore, the uniform technical specifications for wheeled vehicles are intended to maintain the position of the union as a major manufacturer of motor vehicles and as a world technology leader. i believe that only by creating a coherent and transparent regulatory framework and by technological harmonisation can economic competitiveness and sustainable development of this sector be generated, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the automotive and related auxiliary industries are a fundamental economic sector of the european union. the automotive sector accounts for 4% of eu gdp and generates 12 million jobs. the european union is one of the largest producers of motor vehicles. we voted to remove unnecessary barriers to trade and to cooperate on regulatory issues that are essential to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe.
in writing. ‒ this file aims to conclude revision 3 of the revised 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). this agreement aims to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles and for reciprocal recognition of such approvals. the automotive industry is a core economic sector for the eu. international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety. i gave consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this file aims to conclude the 1958 agreement with the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the aim of this agreement is to facilitate and liberalise trade in motor vehicles. this could be done by the establishment of uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of equipment and parts of vehicles. furthermore, there needs to be reciprocal recognition of such approvals.
in writing. ‒ the european union is among the world’s largest producers of motor vehicles. the automotive industry represents a well-integrated value chain where almost all member states are involved. i support this recommendation that should maintain and strengthen the competitive and diversified industrial base in europe.
in writing. ‒ international regulatory cooperation is vital to the automobile trade and helps to ensure common technical standards in road transport. the recent emission scandals involving the car industry highlight the urgent need to improve implementation and monitoring of regulations, including at international level, in order to ensure safety and performance for consumers and deliver genuine environmental benefits.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry and related sectors are an important part of the european union's economy, providing jobs for 12 million people and representing 4% of eu gdp. globally, eu member states are among the world's leading automobile producers, with a significant contribution to research and development and to the euro area trade balance. in this context, it is in the eu's interest to support the removal of barriers to trade, regulatory cooperation and the interconnection of world markets. in this way, common rules will promote transparency, efficiency and competition in the economic environment, while ensuring the protection of health and safety. the global regulatory framework offered by the un economic commission for europe (unece) contributes to technological harmonisation, to reducing production and certification costs and to avoiding administrative duplication. support for revision 3 of the unece agreement concerning the adoption of uniform specifications for wheeled vehicles and the conditions for the mutual recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these specifications is an essential condition for supporting the european automotive industry and i therefore consider that the adoption of the present recommendation is necessary.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and, with the accession of croatia, it will be allowed to participate in the agreement in question. it has a positive impact in the two states, colombia and peru, fostering socio-economic development, integration into the global economy and an increase in the quality of life. as a result, the agreement includes a number of provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement with a view to strengthening a transparent partnership based on mutual benefits. it is necessary to take legal measures to allow croatia to participate in the eu-colombia and peru free trade agreement in order to ensure a level playing field and fairness for all member states, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. it contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, consequent on the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical file to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia/peru, taking into account of the accession of croatia to the eu. i supported the dossier and it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu on the one hand and colombia and peru on the other, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between colombia, peru and the european union member states was signed on 26 june 2012. i support this recommendation of including croatia in this trade agreement as a natural consequence of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ trade agreements between the eu and international partners can bring important economic opportunities. moreover, negotiating the terms of such agreements can help to promote human rights and environmental principles around the world. the addition of croatia to this protocol formalises the participation of another eu member state in this important trading agreement with two key latin american countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main supporters of free trade worldwide. in this context, the eu has in recent years concluded a number of free trade agreements with certain countries in the world with which it shares common economic interests. colombia and peru are two of those countries with which the commission signed those agreements in 2012, documents approved by the european parliament. the agreements liberalise trade in agricultural and industrial products and services, and also regulate a number of technical barriers, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. the current recommendation provides for the inclusion of croatia in this agreement after its accession to the eu in 2013. i consider that the present document constitutes a fact and therefore support its adoption in its current form.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu and its member states, of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia. the trade agreement between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. the agreement also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation on international matrimonial property regimes is a decision taken as a result of the deadlock in negotiations between all member states on the commission's initial proposals in 2011. enhanced cooperation is seen as the appropriate solution, as an option of last resort, where the objectives pursued by such cooperation cannot be achieved within a reasonable time by the union as a whole, and the participation of at least nine member states is required. this form of enhanced cooperation must be a lever for achieving the union's objectives, protecting its interests and contributing to the integration process. i consider that enhanced cooperation on the matrimonial property regime of international couples, including both matrimonial property regime and registered partnership property effects, is necessary in so far as certain bottlenecks cannot be overcome and the objectives pursued cannot be achieved within the time-limits laid down, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the field of family law, after consulting parliament, legislative acts are adopted by the council unanimously. however, it soon became clear that not all member states would agree to the proposals. enhanced cooperation thus emerged as the ideal solution, as 23 member states agreed in principle to adopt the two acts. such enhanced cooperation must be an option of last resort, respect the treaties and union law, facilitate the achievement of the union's objectives and not undermine the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion. i voted for the introduction of enhanced cooperation, to avoid the blockage of negotiations between all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to establish a common european framework for rules applicable to property regimes for international married couples or registered partnerships. it is important to mention that member states that do not want to be affected by this procedure opted out. we hope that this report will make the life of european international couples much easier and offer them legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ negotiations have been taking place between eu member states regarding the establishment of a common european framework for rules applicable to property regimes for international couples and registered partnerships following the commission’s initial proposal in 2011. i support this recommendation that will give the european parliament’s consent regarding the enhanced cooperation proposed by the council.
in writing. ‒ this procedure will allow those member states wishing to establish common rules for property regimes relating to international married couples to do so. other member states may opt out if they prefer to continue applying specific national legislation in this area. i support this flexible approach.
in writing. ‒ i support the fair procedure proposed in this report, under which the 18 member states that agreed with the enhanced cooperation proposed by the council have requested the commission to propose a decision authorising the establishment of enhanced cooperation between themselves on the property regimes of international couples, and the 10 member states that did not agree with the council’s proposal will not be affected by this procedure. the 10 member states that have opted out will not be legally bound by this report and will continue applying national laws. furthermore, i welcome enhanced cooperation and i believe that this report will be beneficial for the international couples living in the member states that have agreed with the council’s proposal.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is an activity with a negative impact on both public health and revenues to state budgets. smuggling of cigarettes undermines tobacco control policies, thus promoting access to tobacco products at lower prices which generates significant revenue losses for the european union, given that the related taxes and customs duties are not paid. the protocol to the who framework convention includes a complex set of measures, rules and policies to combat illicit trade in tobacco products, by pursuing a safer process in the tobacco supply chain, by creating a global traceability and tracing system. the protocol emphasises the importance of judicial cooperation in criminal matters through its provisions, regulating the granting of licences, internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to ensure the highest standards of protection of public health and that international judicial cooperation in criminal matters is necessary to combat illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ this is a consent file for ratifying the who framework convention on tobacco control, fctc protocol. this protocol is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field. not only is illicit trade in tobacco products harmful to public health, but it also results in huge losses in revenue to the eu. this protocol consists of a complex set of measures and rules to tackle illicit trade, such as establishing a global tracking and tracing system to make the supply chain more secure. this proposal is in line with the eu’s comprehensive strategy to combat cigarette smuggling. other provisions include licensing, record keeping requirements and regulation of internet-sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it establishes offences, and addresses liability and seizure payments, as well as the disposal of confiscated products. i welcome the achievement of the first multilateral initiative to tackle illicit trade of tobacco and cigarette smuggling by securing supply chains. this is also a very important from the side of public health as well as fight against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the protocol is the elimination in the future of all forms of illicit trade. this could be done by the creation of a global tracking and tracing regime and establishment of a global information sharing point. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation (who) framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health treaty created in response to the globalisation of the tobacco epidemic. i support this recommendation that aims to eliminate the illicit trade of tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling by enhancing judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely satisfied that today we voted in favour of the ratification of the protocol. illicit trade in tobacco not only causes billions of lost revenue to the budgets of member states. more importantly, it undermines our public health policies and violates the rules that the eu and member states have on manufacturing, distribution and sale of legitimate goods. cigarette smuggling makes possible the circumvention of legislative restrictions and pricing policies that are designed to deter smoking, especially among youngsters. therefore, the control of the supply chain is of fundamental importance not only for combatting illicit trade, but also for reducing tobacco use in general. the illicit tobacco trade is also a main source of revenue for organised crime, and, in some cases, terrorist groups. the global and highly complex nature of the illicit tobacco trade makes it hard to tackle. this is why a coordinated international response and improved global regulation of the legal tobacco trade is such an imperative. i hope that with the ratification and later the implementation of the protocol we will succeed in changing this situation.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control is a first global response to tobacco and aims to tackle the causes of this scourge. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is currently the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this area. on 20 december 2013, the protocol was signed by the european union, but it still needs to be ratified by 40 parties involved to enter into force. this protocol aims to reduce tobacco-related mortality and disease in the world. moreover, illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling of cigarettes to or within the eu, is considered a criminal activity that causes significant revenue losses, in particular taxes and customs duties for the eu and the member states. it is estimated that the european union and its member states suffer losses of over eur 10 billion each year. therefore, given that most of the illicit products originate from third countries, the report underlines that enhanced international cooperation is essential to counter illicit trade. in this regard, i voted in favour of adopting the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control.
in writing. ‒ directive 2014/65/eu together with regulation (eu) no 600/2014 address securities markets, investment firms and trading venues, known as mifid ii. the role of these provisions is to expand the number of financial instruments covered by the trading rules, but they also aim to increase transparency and ensure the supervision of financial markets. however, the lack of complete data, in particular those concerning the reference data and those constituting the data infrastructure for transparency calculations, impedes the application of market rules. information on trade reporting, transparency framework, microstructural regulation is absolutely necessary to improve the conditions of competition in the field of trading and clearing of financial instruments. in the context of data gaps, i consider it appropriate to postpone the date of application of the instruments included in mifid ii, therefore i have expressed my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate that a compromise has been reached on this directive. it is time to review and implement effective legislation to protect investments, prevent speculation and restore the confidence of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the mifid/r overall legislative package is enormous, and is accompanied by a vast array of secondary legislation, which has been developed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european commission over the last two years. it is the single largest exercise esma has undertaken since it was founded in 2010. during those two years, it has become apparent that esma and the national authorities will not have the it systems that they need in place in time for the market to comply with the intended ‘go live’ date of 3 january 2017. after seeking reassurances that this is the minimum delay necessary, and that it really is unavoidable, i agree with this one-off delay. i also agree that the directive shall not apply to persons dealing on own account in financial instruments other than commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives.
in writing. ‒ the points that were voted concerned certain technical fixes to the treatment of package transactions, on the requirements for certain non-financial firms, and on the treatment of securities financing transactions.
in writing. ‒ eu regulation no 600/2014 alongside directive 2014/65/eu have both been adopted at the start of the financial crisis by the european council and european parliament as an important part of financial legislation. i support this report that aims to put in place a new framework that will improve transparency, support orderly pricing and prevent market abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal of extending the entry into force of directive 2014/65/eu, a component of the new framework also including regulation (eu) no 600/2014, concerning securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the new framework was adopted in the aftermath of the financial crisis to reinforce and replace existing financial legislation. the proposal rightly concludes that with the amount of data that needs to be collected and processed across eu member states for the directive 2014/65/eu to function as rightfully intended, an extension of the entry into force of it is justified. otherwise, the consequences may be that we run the risk of compromising the functioning of the market and the legal foundation regulating it.
in writing. ‒ the legislative package on financial instruments markets is very voluminous and is accompanied by a wide range of secondary legislation, developed over the last two years by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european commission. today's vote concerns certain technical amendments to the first level of the text on financing operations through financial instruments, in particular the requirements for certain non-financial corporations. i support the proposals set out in the text.
mr president, we have a european union regulation and directive that sets out the licensing and operating requirements for investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting service providers. the aim is to improve transparency and prevent market abuse. without the collection of such data, the transparency rules cannot be adapted, either before or after the transactions. therefore, i believe it is a matter of legal certainty to act urgently to delay the entry into force of the entire framework until a new data collection infrastructure is developed. it is about efficiency, transparency and avoiding market abuse.
in writing. ‒ directive 2014/65/eu together with regulation (eu) no 600/2014 address securities markets, investment firms and trading venues. the role of those provisions is to extend the number of financial instruments covered by the trading rules, but they also aim to increase transparency and ensure the supervision of financial markets in order to prevent market abuse. however, the lack of complete data, in particular those concerning the reference data and those constituting the data infrastructure for transparency calculations, impedes the application of market rules. information on trade reporting, transparency framework, microstructural regulation is absolutely necessary to improve the conditions of competition in the field of trading and clearing of financial instruments. in the context of data gaps and the difficulties faced by the european securities and markets authority, i consider it appropriate to postpone the date of application of the instruments included in mifid ii, which is why i have expressed my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that streamlining the collection of data on the various transactions at european level from trading venues and independent operators, and harmonising procedures, will allow the development of a new data collection infrastructure, which will contribute to the establishment of a reference data system on financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ the mifid/r overall legislative package is enormous, and is accompanied by a vast array of secondary legislation, which has been developed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european commission over the last two years. after seeking reassurances that this is the minimum delay necessary, and that it really is unavoidable, i agree with the proposed one-off delay. i also agree that the directive shall not apply to persons dealing on own account in financial instruments other than commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives. moreover, for the purpose of regulation (eu) no 600/2014, i believe there are specific circumstances in which pre-trade transparency should not apply to package transactions, nor to any individual component of such transactions. investment firms often execute, on their own account or on behalf of their clients, transactions in derivatives and other financial instruments or assets that comprise a number of interlinked, contingent trades. i agree that such package transactions enable investment firms and their clients to better manage their risks.
in writing. ‒ the points that were voted concerned certain technical fixes on the treatment of package transactions, on the requirements for certain non-financial firms, and on the treatment of securities financing transactions.
in writing. ‒ eu regulation no 600/2014 alongside directive 2014/65/eu have both been adopted at the start of the financial crisis by the european council and european parliament as an important part of financial legislation. i support this report that aims to put in place a new framework that will improve transparency and support orderly pricing through a market abuse and security settlement.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. i supported this candidacy: the candidate gave a good hearing at the committee stage, receiving a large majority in favour of his appointment (16-3). his hearing showed him to be a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of rimantas sadzius as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the policy coherence for development report aims both to assess the progress reported by the commission and to identify areas for improvement of existing eu policy coherence for development mechanisms. even though the union's political commitment to the cfp has always been manifest, there are still difficulties in implementing this commitment through concrete measures. policy coherence for development is a fundamental element for the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda, but also in areas such as trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security. however, it is necessary to focus attention on the union's external policy in the context of the refugee crisis and the lack of stability in the union's neighbourhood. policy coherence for development must therefore be reflected in the union's external action to stabilise the eu's neighbourhood and to devise the best solutions to external challenges, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ policy coherence for development (pcd) is a pillar of the new sustainable development agenda, but its implementation requires the implementation of the commission's commitment in its fifth biennial report. given the unique migratory context facing the european union and the link between migration and development policies, a strengthening of this link is needed to bring this phenomenon under control. eu policies should not focus only on immediate problems, but on implementing a long-term strategy to reduce poverty, concrete actions to boost economic, political and social development and good governance in countries of origin. i support this report as it supports the application of the key tools to ensure effective and systematic implementation of the cfp through eu policies and in areas such as health and food safety. the eu needs to promote the creation of strong regulatory frameworks with clear criteria to protect the rights and food security of vulnerable groups, but also to support the creation of concrete health systems, sustainable health infrastructure and the provision of quality basic health and care services.
in writing. ‒ policy coherence for development will be an important part of the eu's contribution to the wider objective of promoting sustainable development policies. although the eu has often reaffirmed its political commitment to this political coherence, the challenge still facing the union is how to implement this commitment. i voted for the focus of policy coherence for development on the field of foreign policy, given that the refugee crisis and the lack of stability in the eu's neighbourhood call into question the very founding principles of the eu. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a unique opportunity to address the interconnected issues of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ in the current context in which the european union is facing the refugee crisis, i believe it is important to strengthen the link between migration and development policies in order to address the root causes of this phenomenon. i believe that the european union should use all the tools at its disposal to address migration and therefore the root causes of migration by ensuring that eu migration policies are compatible with policies aimed at reducing poverty.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which is now more needed than ever, considering the adoption of the new 17 sdgs (sustainable development goals) in the framework of the agenda 2030. today the implementation of the principle of policy coherence requires solid political commitment at all levels, adequate institutional mechanisms, and willingness to use them, with the ultimate goal to avoid pursuing policies that may have negative effects on the well-being of people in developing countries, the respect of their human rights and the protection of the environment. we need more policy coherence in external and internal policies and a revision of the political impact of our policies not only abroad but also at home, in order to ensure that national policies do not affect developing countries in a negative way and, ultimately, that our resources are spent in a coordinated and efficient way.
in writing. ‒ a european council meeting regarding the pcd before the publication of the commission’s report in 2017 is instrumental. the pcd must revolve closer to the sdg and it is clear that governments and civil society must get more involved in this process.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s 2030 agenda represents the new framework that should tackle the issue of poverty and should achieve sustainable development. policy coherence appeared on the eu agenda at the beginning of the 1990s, being institutionalised through the maastricht treaty in 1992. i support this report, which aims to further address challenges such as poverty eradication and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting against or in favour of this report because the issues it deals with are of great interest to romania and the eu, but i believe that they need to be analysed individually in order to be able to include a greater number of details, opinions and possible strategies for action. i also support some aspects of this report, but i cannot support certain ideas expressed in my vote today.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda presents itself as a new challenge for the establishment of policy coherence for development (pcd), as it puts forward a universal set of development goals applicable to all. this agenda gives the european union the opportunity to be a leader in promoting a universal policy coherence for development, as there are 1.5 billion people still living in poverty around the world, most of which are women. the report in question calls for stronger linkage between pcd and the sustainable development goals, better involvement of local and regional governments, civil society organisations and think tanks, impact assessment on the action being taken, the establishment of a complaint mechanism, an evidence based analysis of pcds, the establishment of national and european strategies and the organisation of a specific european council meeting on pcd. i am satisfied with the content of this report and i also believe that the european union should make an effort to ensure more synergies among eu policies.
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague cristian preda on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development. i agree with the rapporteur that the partnership for effective development cooperation is a key element for the development and implementation of the new sustainable development agenda. i also welcome the fact that the report noted that the eu needs greater harmonisation of migration and asylum policies both within the union and with its international partners, suggesting that a truly effective and comprehensive migration and asylum policy needs to fully integrate the eu's internal and external policies, in particular within the eu's working structures.
mr. president, the giant g8 funded organization like the new alliance for food security and nutrition would bring the farmers of africa to their knees, just as it would bring the farmers of countries where agriculture is obsolete, underfunded and, as such, uncompetitive. we want to help africa out of poverty. let's help local producers by protecting jobs, giving africans a chance to do agriculture at fair prices! i call on the g8 member countries not to support gm crops and to support local farmers. african governments also have things to do: invest in local food industries, boost the rural economy, and distribute resources transparently.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa aims to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. this new alliance must become a tool to support family farming and local economies in order to combat poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. it is necessary to address a model of agriculture through which food systems are generated, with increased attention to family farms and smallholder farmers who are the main investors in agriculture in africa. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement, the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement. at the same time, policies that generate sustainable family farming are needed, which implies directing official development assistance to family farms. i believe that the new alliance for food security and nutrition is a fundamental tool for reducing poverty and fighting hunger, creating the conditions for sustainable and sustainable agriculture, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is based on asia’s ‘green revolution’ of the 1960s and 1970s and was created in order to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. this will include the creation of business-friendly environments through reforms of infrastructure and trade policies, easier access to ‘idle’ land for longer-term lease, and regulatory reforms to strengthen intellectual property rights of plant breeders. to ensure the sustainability of this program, the nafsn must benefit small-scale farmers and small family businesses to secure and strengthen their role in the food supply chain, establish regionally adapted agricultural structures and water-conserving agronomic techniques, and emphasize the importance of a high-quality, balanced nutrition. the nafsn’s commitment to food security is commendable, and so i voted for this report so that development aid will be focused on directing support to small-scale farming in order to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty. by passing this, we will be able to enhance the transparency and governance of the nafsn and, most importantly, support the establishment of farmers’ cooperatives to enable the delivery of affordable means of production and aid farmers in processing and marketing their products in profitable way.
in writing. ‒ a public-private partnership to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa was launched in 2012 as the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa. the african states concerned should implement legislative reforms to support the project. although the alliance's objective is good, there are many shortcomings. because of the poor results of the new alliance for food security and nutrition on poverty reduction and food security, i voted to end the support currently being provided. rather, both funders and national governments should invest in a sustainable, smallholder-friendly model of agriculture to enhance the potential of internal and regional markets for the benefit of family farms and to provide consumers with quality food at affordable prices.
in writing. ‒ according to recent studies, women make up up up to 50% of the workforce on family farms in sub-saharan africa, and the new alliance for food security and nutrition is contributing to increasing inequality between women and men and to the further marginalisation of african women. i believe that sufficient attention should be paid to gender issues through the effective participation of women in the design and implementation of agricultural research and development policies.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn), launched in may 2012 under the auspices of the g8, aims to create the conditions that will allow the african countries concerned to improve agricultural productivity and develop their agrifood sector by attracting more private investment in agriculture. while the general objective of the nafsn is sound, certain deficiencies remain which are underlined in the report. african governments should invest more in local food systems in order to boost rural economies, ensure decent jobs, equitable social safety nets and labour rights; to improve arrangements for democratic scrutiny of access to resources, including farmers’ seeds; and to ensure the effective engagement of small-scale producers in policy processes and implementation. the eu should address all nafsn deficiencies outlined in the report, including enhancing its transparency and governance, so as to ensure that actions taken under the new alliance are consistent with development policy goals. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn), which was launched in 2012, has the aim to create the conditions that will allow the african countries concerned to improve agricultural productivity with more private investment. we agree with most of the objectives of nafsn. however, certain deficiencies remain which are underlined in the report.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn) was launched in 2012, bringing a new phase of global investment in food security and nutrition. i support this report that aims to achieve sustained and inclusive agricultural growth, raising 50 million people out of poverty in the next years.
in writing. ‒ in light of the deficiencies shown by the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) since its launch in 2012, i support the withdrawal of eu support from it. the nafsn was created as a large public-private partnership with the sound objective of leveraging much needed private investment in agriculture in south africa and thus contributing to poverty reduction and food security. however, so far it has failed to meet such goals. among the main reasons underlying the nafsn’s failure are the fact that is has mainly supported large-scale industrial farming, further marginalising small-scale producers and women, as well as inefficient accountability mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the heubuch report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a major public-private partnership (ppp) that aims to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. unfortunately, its actions are far from solving the problem of food security, and malnutrition still affects a significant part of the population in sub-saharan africa. the eu and the member states must help to transform the new alliance for food security and nutrition into a real tool to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, with a view to combating poverty and food and nutrition insecurity.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a major public-private partnership (ppp) launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 to mobilise private investment in agriculture to achieve food security in sub-saharan africa. the alliance is intended to replicate the asian 'green revolution' model on the african continent, promoting monocultures, mechanization, biotechnology, fertilisers and crop production for export. the total amount invested by g8 states is us$8 billion and is channelled into good governance and property guarantee, public accountability, promotion of sustainable family farming, access to land and land security, seed legislation, gender perspective and funding for agricultural investment in africa. however, the document notes a number of shortcomings of this structure, such as the dominant position of multinational corporations, the undermining of the local private sector and the perpetuation of poverty. that's why we need a nuance of the agreement to support small farms, access to land for small farmers, organic farming, agroecology, agroforestry, access to nutritious food and water. stronger regulation and monitoring of public-private partnerships to respect human rights and european social and environmental standards is also required. only in this way will the alliance achieve its objectives.
mr. president, the large-scale falsification of corporate accounts threatens the economic and financial stability of a country. that is why we need accounting standards that are accepted at european level and applied in each member state. we need clear and simple rules that can be applied and controlled quickly and correctly. these standards are issued by the international accounting standards board, to which the european union contributes 14% of its budget. he's the biggest contributor to the fund. that is why we must get involved, including parliament, in setting and periodically reassessing accounting standards.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board develops a set of high-quality accounting standards that are applied worldwide, creating a common language for global financial reporting. the importance of these globally applicable standards for improving competition and removing barriers to investment is thus acknowledged. eu listed companies are required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards from 2005. therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the ias regulation, the development of international accounting standards in eu law is governed by an adoption mechanism. i voted in favour of the international accounting standards (ias) evaluation report because i believe that this evaluation contributes to strengthening the single market and the competitiveness of the european economy by enabling businesses to attract investment capital from the world market.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board develops a set of high-quality, globally applicable accounting standards, thus creating a common language for global financial reporting. these standards are an important part of the eu's financial services regulations and supervisory framework. i voted for the development of a single capital market in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved to remove barriers to investment and to allow the development of a single capital market in the european union. harmonisation of international accounting standards will enhance the competitiveness of the european economy by allowing smes to be easily listed and traded on growth markets. at the same time, compliance with and consistent application of international standards, applicable in multiple jurisdictions, will ensure a level playing field in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is necessary to promote accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth. we also need a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) was founded on the 1 april 20012 and is an independent accounting standard body of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) foundation. i support this report, which aims to further address issues regarding the endorsement process of ifrs in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european union's influence on international accounting standards (iasb) has contributed to the development of high-quality common accounting standards worldwide. the union has, in turn, since 2005 started to incorporate these standards into european legislation, which contributes to the development of the single capital market, financial services and the supervisory framework. at the same time, the development of those standards was aimed at ensuring a higher degree of transparency and accountability and at preventing the emergence of conflicts of interest. the adoption of common accounting standards also contributes to financial stability and sustainable economic development in the eu. last but not least, the harmonisation of these standards with those in partner countries such as the united states will strengthen the relations between the two parties. i believe that the adoption of this document will cement the existence of common accounting standards worldwide, facilitating a wide range of economic activities beneficial to eu member states and european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague theodor stolojan's own-initiative report on the assessment of international accounting standards. the rapporteur emphasises the important role of accounting standards in the development of a single capital market in the eu, particularly in the context of the capital markets union project. the rapporteur believes that the application of international financial reporting standards in the eu has helped to strengthen the single market and has also strengthened the competitiveness of the european economy, as it has enabled companies to attract capital and investment from global capital markets. the rapporteur also notes that the financial crisis has shown that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved.
mr president, the emergence of terrorist and guerrilla groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel/sahara region has led to a dramatic change in the security climate. we contribute, the member states contribute almost two billion euros through the african peace facility. the member states of the union together constitute the largest financial contributor to the un peacekeeping budget. but there is a lack of transparency of eu peacekeeping operations, and as such, we don't know exactly what happens to the money, and the peacekeeping instrument that we fund is not sustainable, it's not controllable. we don't know where it leads or what the consequences will be. so we want more transparency and we want reporting of what's happening with the money. the african union should also be encouraged to take greater responsibility for security in africa.
in writing. ‒ peacekeeping operations (psos) are forms of crisis response in support of an organisation such as the un or the african union (au) designed to prevent armed conflict, maintain or build peace, to comply with peace agreements, but not least to deal with emergencies and complex challenges. the aim of the pso is to contribute to the creation of a climate of long-term stability, security and prosperity. good governance, justice, respect for the rule of law, civil protection, respect for human rights and security are key conditions for this, and the success of reconstruction, reconciliation and economic development programmes will contribute to achieving sustainable prosperity, but at the same time will lead to the achievement of peace. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the stability of the european and african neighbourhood is very beneficial to all eu member states, and that the eu's cooperation with the un and the au does nothing but consolidate this peace, which has recently been very fragile because of terrorist and guerrilla groups.
in writing. ‒ with the increase in fragile states and ungoverned spaces, the security climate in africa has changed dramatically in recent years. the un remains the principal guarantor of international peace and security and has the most comprehensive framework for multilateral cooperation in crisis management. there are 16 un peacekeeping operations with a staff of over 120,000 people. 8 of these missions, as well as 87 percent of the un peacekeeping forces, are on the african continent. i voted for a coherent long-term approach to peace and for continued dialogue between the eu and the african union.
in writing. ‒ given that the purpose of peacekeeping operations (psos) is to respond to crisis situations in order to contribute to the creation of a climate of stability, security and greater prosperity in the long term, i consider that respect for peace agreements is vital for the stability of the african and european neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ this report is tackling the issue of the european cooperation in the framework of the un initiatives for peace support operations in africa, including as well the eu csdp missions and operations in the region. this initiative report comes with recommendations for the eu to improve its engagement in africa in the field of the peace support operations. having in mind the spectacular security changes in africa over the past decades and its consequence for the eu, the report seeks to describe how the eu can help africa ensure its own security. i supported the report as i consider africa a priority, including as well the aspects related to security.
in writing. ‒ the issues concerning european cooperation in the framework of the un initiatives for peace support operations in africa, including as well the eu csdp missions and operations in the region are tackled in this report. considering the security changes in africa over the past decades, the report seeks to describe how the eu can help africa ensure its own security. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations (pso) encompass activities of all civil and military organisations that deploy peacekeeping missions. i support this report that aims to enforce peace agreements, prevent and stop armed conflicts and restore, maintain and build peace.
in writing. ‒ acknowledging the importance of a long-term approach towards guaranteeing peace in africa, and driven by the adequacy of the measures proposed with this aim in the report, i have resolved to support the resolution. the report notes the need to reinforce eu involvement with peace support operations in africa following strategies effectively coordinated with those of the un and the african union. not only should overlaps be avoided, but particular focus should be placed on promoting capacity building rather than substitution, with the ultimate goal of ensuring the continent’s autonomy in conflict resolution. furthermore, accountability mechanisms regarding funding utilisation ought to be further refined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the van orden report on peacekeeping operations and cooperation with the un and the african union. despite fierce criticism, eu peacekeeping operations in africa are essential. but we have to learn from our mistakes and make these missions effective. i would like to stress that special attention must be paid to the security situation in the sahel-sahara region, which can generate significant migratory flows to the european continent. only by ensuring peace on the african continent, complemented by development aid, can we talk about a chance for stability and democratization on the african continent.
in writing. ‒ the european union is an important international actor, interested in maintaining world peace and combating negative phenomena that threaten international security. for this reason, member states have frequently supported un peacekeeping missions. the missions deployed on the african continent in recent decades have been aimed at strengthening state structures affected by internal fighting between various factions, combating the phenomenon of terrorism or combating oppressive regimes. the missions were carried out in cooperation with nato structures or through the capabilities of some of the member states. in recent years, the development of the structures of the african union has led to a partnership with this regional organisation, with a view to developing the capacity of those states to manage adverse situations affecting their security on their own. to achieve these aims, financial resources allocated under the european development fund (edf) through the african peace fund have been used to support structural reforms in african states. particular attention should be paid to the security situation in the sahel-sahara region, which can generate significant migratory flows towards the european continent. only by ensuring security on the african continent can these states develop in all respects, and the eu can support this complex process.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the spread of terrorist groups in africa, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations have become a necessity in many regions. today, peacekeeping operations are increasingly characterised by the deployment of several un missions in the same theatre of operations, bringing together different actors and regional organisations such as the african union. for these actions to be successful, these partnerships need to be effectively coordinated to avoid overlaps. in this context, an effective allocation of tasks between states and organisations is needed. furthermore, un and african union missions need a global approach. in addition to the organisation of diplomatic, military and development missions, other elements such as a thorough knowledge of the security environment and the exchange of information and technologies are essential. there are also eu instruments in the field of security, in particular missions and operations under the common security and defence policy, which could be used in these regions. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on peacekeeping operations eu cooperation with the un and the african union.
i agree with the position expressed in the report and i myself believe that we must act by legislative means to put an end to unfair trading practices in the european union's food supply chain. it is quite clear that wholesalers are abusing their dominant position in the market to an extreme extent, thereby putting the capital-supporting undertakings which are placed at their disposal in an impossible position. small and medium-sized enterprises are the engine of the european economy, and small food producers and retailers are the foundation of european food. we cannot leave this to market self-regulation, which requires national and eu regulators. the primary consideration should be the interest of european citizens in facilitating access to safe, healthy and nutritious food. unfortunately, it seems that self-regulation in the market is not moving in this direction and it is our responsibility to contribute to restoring the balance.
mr president, unfair trading practices are a serious problem and they must be stopped. a commission report from january 2016 confirms that these unfair practices can exist at all stages of the food supply chain. there's an imbalance of income and power in this chain. this imbalance is disadvantaging small and medium-sized enterprises, small producers. and small producers make up over 90% of the economic structure of the european union. they're the most vulnerable right now. their ability to survive on the market is jeopardised precisely because of unfair trading practices. they are jeopardising their ability to come up with new initiatives, or to do trade, or to expand across borders into the internal market of the european union. or that's not how a free market works. therefore, eu competition law needs to be aligned to combat unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ unfair commercial practices (ucps) are contrary to good faith and fairness and are imposed unilaterally by one trading partner on another, affecting good commercial conduct. ncds are a serious problem and occur in several economic sectors, with negative effects on the eu economy as a whole. today, at european level, there is no eu legislation addressing unfair trading practices between companies in the food supply chain. at national level, however, most member states have approached ncps using a variety of approaches based on the problems encountered. although measures to combat unfair trading practices have evolved significantly in recent years, i believe that a framework legislation to combat ncps at union level is needed, ensuring greater transparency and fairer conditions for european citizens to buy and sell in the common market. at the same time, i would point out that this new framework instrument should not affect the level of protection in countries with national legislation on the fight against intra-corporate ncps. i support this ep motion for a resolution because the purpose of the report is not only to inform us and analyse the problem of unfair practices, but also to identify new solutions that can be applied in this area for a better functioning of the eu internal market.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices have negative effects on the eu's entire economy. a 2011 survey shows that 96 per cent of respondents in the food supply chain said they had already been subject to at least one form of unfair trading practices. self-regulatory systems are not sufficient to solve this problem. i voted for the introduction of clear sanctions for anyone who applies such practices and for firm and consistent action to eliminate this phenomenon once and for all.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this resolution is a signal that the european parliament is sending in support of farmers. it is a positive signal for producers of consumer goods, who are often not protected in relation to large commercial networks. it is important that these people's efforts are properly rewarded, just as it is important for consumers to benefit from quality products at decent prices. i hope that the responsible officials of the european commission will act as quickly as possible on the requests made in this resolution. the resolution also serves romanian farmers, who we already know often have difficulty selling and distributing their products on fair terms.
in writing. ‒ the czesak report states that all voluntary schemes in place (such as the supply chain initiative) to tackle unfair trading practices (payment delays, restricted access to market, abusive changes to contract terms, pressure to cut prices, etc.) are insufficient and that eu proposals for an eu framework doubled by a strong enforcement mechanism, including penalties, are needed. i support legislative/regulatory measures at european level to tackle utps and strong enforcement mechanism and penalties. i supported the report as i want the eu to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium—sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations on a highly concentrated market.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of this report, i voted for it in view of the negative effects that unfair trading practices can have on the european economy. they may lead to a loss of investment and innovation capacity of smes and could also affect their decision to expand. i too believe that firm and consistent action is needed to eliminate unfair trading practices from the eu food supply chain once and for all. given the scale of the problem, provisions need to be adopted at eu level to ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all parties involved in the food supply chain. unfair trading practices should be clearly defined and clear penalties should be provided for anyone who applies such practices. and national agencies should be responsible for the enforcement of the rules and should be able to open investigations on their own initiative and deal with anonymous complaints.
in writing. ‒ we have to put an end to unfair commercial practices against small and medium-sized producers and farmers when they engage in commercial relations on a highly concentrated market.
in writing. ‒ the european commission issued a communication in 2014 urging member states to search for new ways of giving more protection against unfair trading practices (utps) to small food producers and retailers. i support this report that aims to end this situation of unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that unfair trading practices must be identified and combated throughout the european union. the use of such practices in the food supply chain affects the entire market, including the interests of consumers. these practices also have a negative impact on employment and on the quality and diversity of the products made available. i believe it is very important that the authorities of the member states, together with the european commission, continue to promote good practice and continue the fight to identify and sanction unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european commission must make concrete proposals against unfair trading practices in the food sector and to ensure a decent income for farmers. the resolution, approved by 600 votes to 48, with 24 abstentions, demonstrates the urgency of improving the bargaining power of farmers in the trade chain. it is unacceptable that fruit and vegetables, dairy products and meat, the main staples of a healthy diet, are sold at undervalued prices by large distributors.
in writing. ‒ strong measures are needed to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain and in particular to protect producers, small businesses and consumers. not for the first time, the commission is relying too heavily on a voluntary approach and self-regulation, despite the evidence that this is not appropriate in this case. sometimes tougher measures are needed, such as an eu legal framework with proper enforcement procedures and genuinely dissuasive penalties.
in writing. ‒ access to the free market for small food producers and traders is currently affected by a number of unfair trading practices in their relations with participants in the food supply chain. these practices occur in the presence of imbalances between the financial resources of the two parties and are manifested by setting unfavourable prices, delays in payment, restricting market access, abusive contractual clauses in relation to small producers, who are forced to accept this way of working, without having the necessary means to defend themselves. the situation is widespread, despite regulatory measures taken by member states, which rely on voluntary and self-regulatory systems. firm and consistent measures are needed to eliminate these negative practices from the union food supply chain. they involve a clear definition of unfair trading practices and clear sanctions to deter them, applied by the competent national agencies. the current report envisages the introduction of the necessary mechanisms for the implementation of these measures, which can support small and medium-sized producers. that is why i support the present form of the document.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights that unfair trading practices are a serious problem that can be found in many sectors of the economy. this threat is particularly relevant to food supply chains. unfair practices may consist of: delaying payment, restricting market access, unilaterally changing contractual terms, changing them with retroactive effect or pressuring to lower product prices. the rapporteur notes that these practices are the result of imbalances in income and power relations within food supply chains and stresses that the most appropriate means must be found to ensure that food producers and distributors are adequately protected against these practices. furthermore, it is underlined that the initiative on supply chains and other optional national and eu systems should be developed and promoted more intensively. it is also necessary to develop effective control mechanisms so that complaints can be lodged anonymously and deterrent sanctions can be imposed with coordination at european union level. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on combating unfair trading practices in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ meeting the demand for healthy food and optimal food intake is one of the world's greatest challenges. demand for healthy food is expected to increase by up to 70% by 2050, and declining land availability, ecological losses and environmental degradation, water scarcity, increasing energy needs, as well as the emergence of new pests and diseases, are putting considerable pressure on the natural environment, making it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food sustainably. an important part of the solution is technology innovation. agricultural technologies have increased potential in the productivity and sustainability of agriculture, with farmers seeing technology as the only realistic way to respond to current challenges. i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because i believe that it is very beneficial for farmers and for sustainable agriculture and the future to identify viable solutions for achieving organic and healthy agriculture.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world's population is expected to increase, and the demand for food will increase in direct proportion by 70 per cent. today, there is a positive trend in healthy food on the european market, a demand that unfortunately farmers cannot meet due to several factors such as: reduced availability of land, ecological losses and environmental degradation, water shortages, energy needs, and the emergence of new pests. the majority of farmers and landowners are small enterprises and the additional costs threaten their survival on the agricultural market. strong farmers need state-of-the-art technology, high-performance financing solutions and continuous education. technological innovation is a key part of the solution. the eu has prepared for the next period the horizon 2020 framework programme which is the union's largest research and innovation programme, with funding of around €80 billion. i support this report because i believe that the need to improve productivity, competitiveness and environmental performance is not just a matter of economics, but rather a moral obligation of the ep to optimise and increase agricultural production in the most sustainable way possible for the wellbeing of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ with global population growth, food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the increasingly scarce availability of land, as well as other factors such as ecological losses, make agricultural technology innovation the only reliable solution. i voted for creating a regulatory environment that is conducive to innovation and ensuring that eu regulations do not act as barriers to innovation.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at how new technological solutions could make future agriculture more sustainable while responding to the rise of the global population, food security, increase demand of high protein products in the new emerging powers and demand for healthier food. as such the report focus on innovation and the use of new technologies such as ict in agriculture, that can for example: attract new young farmers; funding for research, especially under the european innovation partnership; skill development and knowledge transfer. i believe we have to make sure that tomorrow’s agriculture will be sustainable and will be able to feed an increasing world population. however intensive agriculture is not the only answer to those challenges. we have to tackle food waste first. innovation and research should accompany the future of agriculture but with the aim of safe and healthy food, improving the environment by not only protecting it but also and diminishing our consumption of chemical products such as fertilisers and pesticides. the precautionary principle should always be at the core of any authorisation of new plant protection products. i supported its adoption in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i support the need to improve productivity, competitiveness and environmental performance and i believe this is not just a matter of economics. technological innovation is an essential part of the solution, and agricultural technologies in particular have the potential to increase productivity and sustainability of agriculture, and farmers recognise and appreciate this. i also encourage the creation of a more innovation-friendly environment and ensure that eu regulations do not act as barriers to innovation. these are very important issues. one of these barriers for farmers and landowners is the high administrative burden of managing these smes, and the reduction of burdens is essential. margins in the agricultural sector are low and additional costs threaten the survival of some small farms, and in the absence of a favourable regulatory framework, european industry will relocate to more dynamic markets.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, food demand is expected to increase by 70%, thus satisfying the growing demand for optimal nutrition, and healthy food represents one of the biggest challenges facing the world. i support this report, which aims to ensure support for technological innovation in order to tackle long-term challenges of sustainable agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs to strengthen its increasingly clear position in support of sustainable agriculture. as the world's population and by extension the european community's is continually growing, with estimates showing that we are expected to have 10 billion people worldwide by 2050, the eu urgently needs to identify sustainable ways to improve agricultural production. i believe that this improvement depends directly on the creation and use of new technological solutions. i therefore consider it absolutely necessary that the report proposes to step up cooperation between the european commission, the member states and industry to improve the performance of technological systems, which would consume fewer natural resources, give better yields, maintain the same quality of food and, not least, reduce pollution.
in writing. ‒ the growth of the world's population and food demand will put increasing pressure on agriculture and on ensuring food security for citizens in the coming years. at the same time, ecological losses, environmental degradation, water shortages and the emergence of new types of pests will create additional difficulties for farmers. one of the solutions to these phenomena could be technological innovation, manifested through the application of new agricultural technologies, whether genetic, mechanical or digital. the european union can become a world leader in agricultural innovation and sustainability through conventional, organic or other improvements that would be available to farmers. however, competitors outside europe are now making more progress than eu countries, highlighting the need to invest in agronomic research at european level in order to be globally competitive. at the same time, however, this report does not address other solutions to this problem, such as tackling food waste, preserving biodiversity and diversifying crops. the widespread use of pesticides, chemical fertilizers and new hybridization techniques can endanger the quality of the food produced.
in writing. ‒ estimates show that food demand is set to increase by 70% by 2050. so optimal and healthy nutrition is going to become one of the most important challenges that the world will face. decreasing land availability, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increased demand for energy and the emergence of new diseases are putting considerable pressure on the agricultural sector. in this respect, this report supports the introduction of new technologies, which can play a key role in crop productivity and sustainability. in order to ensure a strong agricultural sector, it is essential to develop a wide range of innovative technologies for all types of farmers. the report underlines that the european union should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, while ensuring that the benefits of technological progress are available to all farmers. in this respect, the report - which i voted in favour of - calls on the european commission and the member states to develop a long-term investment plan containing cost-effective solutions applicable to small producers, rural areas, outermost regions and mountain regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. the proposals included by the rapporteur in this initiative aim to support the creation of a sustainable and competitive european agri-food chain. the report calls on the european commission to include the principle of innovation as an overarching policy guideline in all individual work programmes and legislative measures.
in writing. ‒ according to the un, to achieve the sustainable development goals, agricultural productivity should double by 2030, while the agri-food sector should adapt to climate change and changing weather conditions. today, consumers demand food production that meets higher standards and values, and therefore consider that new regulations ensuring fair competition and fair competition are needed to encourage economic development in the agri-food sector in all member states. to achieve higher production with less resources requires constant research and technological innovation. by using sensors, drones and cutting-edge remote communication solutions, we will create an efficient agricultural market, reducing costs as well as the use of pesticides. i support the ep's motion for a resolution because i believe that for a new europe, access to food and an adequate supply of good quality and safe food for all eu citizens, while alleviating pressure on natural resources and thus preserving the environment and valuable resources for future generations, are important steps to be taken.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world population will exceed 9 billion people. so the demand for food will grow exponentially. changes in the agricultural sector, one of the most dynamic economic sectors, have been either structural or linked to the production process, making this industry a cutting-edge in terms of innovation and development. better use of innovative power guarantees the success of the rural economy as well as maintaining the pace of large-scale economic development. we voted for a common agricultural policy that focuses more on the needs of farmers and on harmonisation with other industrial sectors.
in writing. ‒ i believe that mainstreaming policies to promote farmers' training in new technologies and supporting innovation and entrepreneurship among young farmers are essential elements for making agriculture more environmentally sustainable and the sector more competitive.
in writing. ‒ the demographic challenges of tomorrow will necessitate adaptations in both the production of food and the way we consume and dispose of it. better management of natural resources is key for sustainable agriculture. some of the techniques can help the reduction of fertiliser use, better soil and water management such as precision agriculture, ict-based management and real-time data monitoring. but at the same time we need to tackle food waste since each year 100 million tonnes of food in europe is wasted, food waste is to be fought at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers, as 33% of food waste is produced by consumers. agro-forestry and conservation agriculture have been recognised as sustainable innovative techniques that should be further promoted at european level. i therefore supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that the common agricultural policy should focus more on the needs of farmers without compromising its objectives, namely to give sufficient flexibility to enhance innovation and competitiveness. innovations in technology can promote the abandonment of generic measures and contribute to specific interventions. the use of precision agriculture and big data can transform agriculture and contribute to achieving higher yields using fewer resources and more targeted interventions to combat diseases or pests. the european agricultural sector is of fundamental importance as it ensures food supply and is a key economic pillar, employing 25 million people directly involved in agricultural work and in complementary sectors such as food and trade.
in writing. ‒ dietary preferences rapidly change with more consumers requesting animal protein like dairy and meat. by 2050 food demand is expected to increase by 70%, thus satisfying the growing demand for optimal nutrition, and healthy food represents one of the biggest challenges facing the world. i support this report that aims to enhance innovation and competitiveness in the agricultural sector in order to tackle these new challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it encourages the improvement of agricultural practices within the union by supporting actors in this sector. it is commendable that the european parliament has found resources at institutional level to improve the balance between the means and modes of production in modern agriculture and the policy designed to achieve this in the long term. the report voted on today contains a package of measures to promote intensive but sustainable agricultural development in the context of population growth. this sustainable development is necessary to reduce the need for imported plant protein products into the european union and to respond to the diversification of the needs of agri-food consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the huitema report on promoting innovation and economic development in the future european agricultural management. by 2050, the un estimates that the global population will exceed 9 billion, and the demand for food will increase exponentially as diets change in different regions of the globe. with limited resources and the effects of climate change becoming increasingly acute, european agriculture needs to produce more, but also more sustainably. innovation is key when we talk about smart water use and better environmental protection, but i want to stress that food safety and health should never be compromised. i believe that better coordination with the eib and increased investment in the agricultural sector should be a priority for european governments and the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the use of new technologies and innovation in agriculture has led to unprecedented development in this area, ensuring the success of the rural economy and wider economic development. at the same time, demographic pressure on agriculture will lead to increased pressure on the environment and arable land, leading to the need to strengthen the innovation process and the eu's common agricultural policy. new legislative measures could promote the abandonment of generic practices, more efficient use of resources, integrated pest management using biological and less chemical methods, replacement of artificial fertilisers with those from pet litter. at the same time, better harmonisation between agriculture and other industrial sectors, on chemicals, health and technology, would be needed for better integration into the circular economy. given the importance of agriculture for the union, with 25 million people directly involved in this activity and the result of their work ensuring the food supply of european citizens, i believe that this report is very important for the good management of agriculture in the future.
in writing. ‒ estimates show that by 2050, the world population will exceed 9 billion people. in the context of current demographic and trade dynamics, food preferences are changing rapidly, but the potential of innovation in agriculture is not properly recognised. the european regulatory framework is also not adapted to keep pace with developments. in this regard, this report underlines that the common agricultural policy should focus on the need to strengthen innovation and competitiveness. the aim is to transform agriculture to achieve higher production using fewer resources and through effective interventions to control diseases or pests. new solutions adapted to human needs are therefore needed if european agriculture is to maintain its productivity and standards of farming practices worldwide in order to produce high quality products with high added value. last but not least, the european agricultural sector is extremely important socially, providing jobs for over 25 million people. i therefore voted in favour of the report on promoting innovation and economic development in the future european agricultural management.
in writing. i voted for the own-initiative report on promoting innovation and economic development in the future european agricultural management. this initiative underlines the importance of innovation for sustainable agriculture. the report also points out that small family farms are an integral part of european agriculture and therefore need to benefit from the latest production techniques.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, in your speech you referred to those countries that do not want to accept migrants. i would like to ask you how you comment on the intransigent position of the president of romania, mr iohannis, in this regard.
blue-card question. – because of the economic situation, because of the social situation, because of the civil wars taking place nowadays in some countries in africa, europe is going to see more and more people trying to come to europe in the years ahead – especially from africa. do you not think that in the end the european union has to come up with a long-term strategy and policy to meet this important challenge? it is not only practical measures or effective solutions that need to take place now: we need a long-term strategy for this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, sometimes listening to some of the comments, let me be very frank, we had doubts and thought that maybe a careful reading of the proposal itself could be useful, to start from the facts. in the debates this afternoon you mixed many different things. mr verhofstadt was asking at the beginning – it is a pity he is not here – whether this is a duplication of the deal with turkey. the two situations are completely different. as frans mentioned at the beginning, from turkey we have mainly syrian refugees. it is temporary – hopefully temporary, we are working also on that, this is another story – a flow of refugees, asylum seekers. that falls into one specific international legal framework. we are trying to deal with that in a sort of immediate and also – let me use this word that i do not like at all, but that is the reality of our policies today – emergency mode. what we are putting on the table here is something completely different. it is something that starts from the fact that with africa we have a common interest in working on the development of the continent with a sense of partnership. some of you asked how are the african interlocutors reacting to this? very well. yesterday i was in new york at the security council. african countries, but not only african countries, latin american countries, were saying: this is the right way to go because finally you are not only investing in development – which is the right thing to do, by the way, in itself. and incidentally, i am proud to say that the european union is the first donor worldwide, it is the first – and if you want, i can give you the figures for it also being the first donor to africa – the first donor internationally with more than half of the official development assistance worldwide: eur 68 billion in 2015, over eur 20 billion oda to africa every year, and this is going to stay. i am proud of that. this is the right thing to do anyway but there is another issue. please go to ethiopia and talk to the women that came back voluntarily, not from europe but from the gulf because they were becoming slaves, while we support projects from the ilo to reintegrate them into their communities, offering training and job opportunities. listen to their stories and then come back to me and say that we are doing deals on their shoulders. no. we are protecting their lives and their rights. go and talk with the young girls from nigeria who turn into sex slaves in europe and tell me that the deal we want to strike with nigeria is not to protect their rights and their lives. i am sorry, but you do not protect the lives of people only by saving them at sea. you also save their lives at the beginning of the journey. go to lampedusa and listen to the stories that the survivors tell you, or if you cannot fly there, watch the movie ‘fuocoammare’ (fire at sea). there was a showing of it a couple of months ago in the european parliament in brussels. listen to those words that tell you that these people are turned into slaves from the very beginning of their journeys. they are in chains crossing the deserts, locked in jails in libya, locked in the boats that then sink. we have a human responsibility – and our african partners as well have a human responsibility – to protect their lives. this is what we are talking about, and doing this together with international agencies starting from the international organisation for migration (iom) and the unhcr. so what we are talking about is job creation, perfectly rightly, for african women, for african youth – go to agadez, that was living from tourism before security made it impossible – about offering those young people job opportunities that are not linked to the smuggling networks or the criminal organisations, working on education, working on social development, working also on human rights and protection of the people. this is what we are talking about. so, is it enough? no. but sorry, if we never start to do the right thing, in 10 years’ time the people who come after us will be facing exactly the same thing and i wish the people that were here 10 years ago had made the same choices as we are proposing to you today, because maybe today we would have better situations in africa and also in europe. we have to start somewhere. so we know very well this this proposal is not going to turn the situation upside down in 24 hours, but there is no policy that could do that, and we should stop selling illusions to our people. but there are good things we can start doing consistently in partnership to change things, and we have to start. so this is what we are proposing today. this goes together with opening regular channels for migration, for sure, this also is not my direct responsibility. this is also linked to the need for member states to be coherent and do their part. this is also about other actors in the world doing their part and being coherent, from asia to latin america, to north america and the international organisations, to the un system and to our african partners, because the only thing that would change africa is not only our compacts, it is african leadership. and here, believe me, we are very straightforward, very much so, because there is no other way of changing african societies other than yes, investing, but also creating, together with investments, the conditions for investments to flourish which are: the rule of law, interconnection within the continent – if you want to fly or to travel from one african capital to another you have to fly to europe; does that make sense? – developing infrastructures, developing security conditions that are good for european investments, that are good for african investors as well, and people. so yes, it can be win-win-win. last, but not least, some of you mentioned the fact that, as the flows diminish or go down to zero on the eastern route, we see an increase on the central mediterranean route. let me tell you, please have a look at the numbers but most of all at the nationalities. they are two completely different routes and there is no link, as of today. last year, through libya to sicily, we were facing a major inflow of syrians. it is not the case today. at the moment we are not seeing a shift. it is simply that africa is young, it is poor, it is facing the dramatic effect of climate change, and it is only natural that this happens, if we do not work with a long-term strategic perspective to change this. that is what we are suggesting to you to do.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i will make just a few remarks in addition to what high representative mogherini said. it is my deep conviction that the only way we can maintain a humane refugee policy, based on our most fundamental values, is if we make a clear distinction between people who deserve international protection and people who come to europe because they see economic opportunity in europe. all too often – and we have heard it again here today – people pretend that everyone arriving on europe’s shores is an economic migrant. i have heard some of your members saying it today. this is a cheap way of getting rid of your moral and legal responsibility vis—à—vis people who deserve international protection, but it is made possible because, until now, we have not been good enough at making a clear distinction between people who deserve international protection and people who do not. why? because for too many years greece and italy were left alone with a problem. they asked time and time and time again for a european solution and the only answer they got from the rest of europe was that ‘it’s not our problem, but your problem, so take care of it’. so now we need to solve it and the only sustainable way of solving it is by doing it in a european way. we can solve it, and get pan—european support for a humane refugee policy, if, and only if, we sort out the issue of economic migration in a sustainable way, and the compact with african countries is one element for doing that. that is why i passionately believe in this way forward. i have heard no one who criticises it giving us a better idea. if you have a better idea, share it with us. but to simply say, ‘let everyone into europe’ is the shortest way to ending our humanitarian policy, the shortest way to ending the reception of refugees in europe and the shortest way to giving populists the opportunity to say that everyone who comes here is an opportunist looking for a better future at our expense. tell that to a family fleeing from raqqah, fleeing from aleppo, from barrel bombs. tell them that they are economic migrants. it is a scandal. so that is why we believe that, as part of a comprehensive long-term migration and refugee policy, we also need to be able to show that we can return people to their places of origin if they do not have the right to international protection and, more importantly, that we create opportunity in african countries so that economic growth does not disappear into the pockets of the elite but goes to everyone with talent and every young person has an opportunity to build a life for themselves in their country of origin. that is what we need to do and this is surely not going to be done on its own. we need the member states to contribute. the biggest problem here is not just a lack of finance. it is the lack of clear direction, of coordinated efforts, of doing the same thing from all 28 with the european union and its institutions and all doing it in the same vein, instead of having individual, very often post—colonial, ideas of how to have a relationship with individual african countries. let us bring some order into this. finally, let us never forget that we are talking about human beings. we are not talking about numbers or objects. we are talking about people who have dreams – like you and me – who want a better life for their children and who do not want to be abandoned by the rich part of the world. i had a very wonderful experience last week in sweden, a country that has taken in per capita more refugees than any other european country – more than 160 000. now that they have the impression that we are slowly getting this under control, you see the mood in the swedish society shifting towards, ‘ok, let us make a success of this’, companies offering thousands of intern places for refugees, schools accommodating many new pupils and communities welcoming new citizens. i hope that next week at the european championships we will see zlatan ibrahimović being one of the stars – the son of people who fled the balkan wars 20 years ago and who is now a very proud swede, and sweden is very proud of him. let us see how many zlatans we will have 20 years down the road in sweden.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission for having succeeded, by working closely with parliament, in putting an end to the smuggling of refugees between turkey and greece. we can already see the positive results: the reduction of the loss of life in the aegean to zero and the decrease in the flow of syrian refugees from turkey. the situation is not the same in the southern mediterranean. of course, this is a completely different context, given the ethnic origin of the migrants. these are not war refugees, but people who, for demographic, economic and inequality reasons, continue to come from africa to europe. this european agenda on migration must be approached from both an economic support and rule of law perspective in african states. i recommend that the european institutions and the member states be mobilised to find instruments and resources which, in cooperation with third countries, will lead to the control of the migration phenomenon. the countries in africa and europe's neighbourhood must be helped by eu investment funds, but control of these funds must not be neglected; how third countries spend this money. we need a long-term strategy in which we europeans work with african states.
mr president, please allow me to speak in romanian. doamnă președinte, domnule comisar, vorbim astăzi despre un cadru european comun care va putea securiza frontierele uniunii prin european border and coast guard, va stabili criteriile de acceptare pe baza unor standarde comune și va face posibilă gestionarea fluxurilor de migranți legali. în acest sens, în documentul de poziție al grupului meu, am inclus o serie de propuneri inspirate pe baza bunei practici din cadrul mai multor state europene, între care germania, și care au obținut și sprijinul deschis al ministerului de externe al țării mele. propun astfel introducerea unei declarații individuale cu caracter legal pe care solicitanții trebuie să o semneze la accesul în zonele de filtrare, hotspoturi, sau la frontiera externă a uniunii europene. declarația ar impune recunoașterea și asumarea convenției europene a drepturilor omului, recunoașterea valorilor europene sociale și, așa cum sunt ele specificate în cadrul constituțiilor statelor membre în care sunt direcționați sau relocați, atât în termeni de respectare a normelor statului de drept, dar și a ordinii publice, în țările în care azilantul-migrantul este locat sau relocat, recunoașterea imperativă a caracterului secular al statelor europene și al cadrului laic al societăților noastre, interdicția de a desfășura orice formă de prozelitism sau militantism cu excepția activităților politice legal recunoscute, precum și neimplicarea în niciun fel de activități cu caracter radical sau religios care duc la radicalizare și recrutare. de asemenea, consider necesare integrarea în cadrul legal al dreptului penal european a dreptului de expulzare a migranților legali condamnați penal, inspirat de soluția din cadrul statului german. nu în ultimul rând, subliniez susținerea statului român și a grupului meu pentru dezvoltarea unor proiecte de integrare cu statele moderate musulmane.
mr president, in twenty to thirty years’ time, most of the jobs will be in categories of qualifications which do not exist today, as also is the case today in comparison to twenty or thirty years ago. the technological change will be even faster in the upcoming decade. so the way in which people will work, be hired and put into practice their entrepreneurial skills will be fundamentally different in the future. as i said, the speed will only accelerate. what we have to do is firstly the following: we have to equip the young people of europe with the right skills they will need to have access to the jobs of the future. we are discussing a lot about online and about the digital single market, but digital skills are the point where our whole digital agenda becomes personal. it is the point where the citizens of europe feel that europe does something for them. what do we have to do in concrete terms? firstly, i believe that we have to involve youth organisations more and more strongly when we draft new policy proposals. secondly, i think that digital literacy has to become one of the core skills acquired from an early age and also later perfected throughout one's life. the education systems at national level have to be adapted to this. the member states have to make sure that their education systems respond to the needs of the market and that we do not lose out in terms of global competitiveness. furthermore, we also have to make sure that the eu budget is responsive to youth policies and that the eu can set up a coherent framework and provide technical and financial assistance to our budget to help this shift from traditional education to a modern one.
in writing. – according to an ilo study, between 25 and 45 percent of the european workforce are either under— or over—qualified for the jobs they do – a situation that is largely due to the fast paced change in the structure of our economies. because recently an increased number of people underwent digital education or training, the number of unfilled vacancies demanding it skills became smaller than what was expected a few years ago. but there is still much to be done to align the european economy to the new digital economy and close the gap between the number of job seekers and the number of unfilled jobs. this is why i welcome the issuing by the commission of an agenda to equip, skill and reskill students and people in employment or looking for employment with the competencies needed in a modern labour market. with a well designed and implemented strategy we can go beyond addressing labour market needs: we can also help the ‘skills—poor’ have a better start – or a new start – in life and to reduce poverty and social exclusion in our countries.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the european union and bangladesh are long-term partners. our relationship has led to results that are mutually beneficial for both sides, particularly in trade, investment and development. the european union is the first destination for bangladesh exports. a combination of substantial eu investments in bangladesh with eu development assistance has certainly contributed to bangladesh economic growth and to its achievements in terms of poverty reduction and reaching the millennium development goals. the relationship is still growing. the eu and bangladesh continue addressing together new challenges, such as contributing to the sustainability of the bangladesh ready-made garment industry, a very important topic i think, through the sustainability compact and, more recently, addressing comprehensively migration and mobility. in this context, the first european union-bangladesh dialogue on migration management was held in dhaka on 5 april 2016. the most important policy objectives in bangladesh are possibly to become a middle-income country by 2021 and therefore to continue lifting bangladeshi people out of poverty, which i think has to be the first priority. achieving this very ambitious target will need the involvement and determination of all bangladeshi citizens and institutions, as well as the support of bangladesh international partners. the worrying political evolution in bangladesh could be very detrimental in this respect and since the controversial january 2014 elections, boycotted by the opposition and criticised by the international community, the political, human rights and security situation in the country has unfortunately steadily deteriorated. the resolutions on bangladesh adopted by the european parliament in the last two years cover these 2014 elections, human rights violations and freedom of expression. high representative federica mogherini, her spokespersons and the european union heads of mission have also issued statements on these and other issues such as the death penalty and the recent brutal killings, even yesterday, of independent thinkers and activists. this is a very worrying situation. these resolutions and statements over the last couple of years track and summarise very well a growing collective concern in the european union about the political evolution in bangladesh. we think it is important that an overall new social and political consensus will need to be built in bangladesh for democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and political liberties to be fully restored, promoted and protected in the country. it is time to put an end to the arbitrary arrest and harassment of opposition leaders, to restore tolerance and to open spaces for public political debate. it is also time to ensure freedom of expression as a fundamental human right and to promote respect. it is also essential to ensure the protection and safety of all citizens. especially the brutal murders and horrifying attacks on citizens must cease, and of course investigations into these killings need to take place, and those responsible have to be brought to justice. it is now time for the government of bangladesh and democratic political parties together to engage in real dialogue for the country’s stability, democracy and economic development. the european union needs a bangladesh where core universal human rights values are upheld. i have spoken already about social-economic rights: they have to be effectively protected; but of course where institutions respect the rule of law and fully ensure protection and safety of all citizens, priority must be placed on the promotion of tolerance and freedom of expression. of course the government of bangladesh has a primary role in this perspective. we will continue to follow closely the situation and address our concerns at our regular dialogue with the government of bangladesh. we count in this on the support of you, the members of the european parliament.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i am concerned about the climate of violence and crime in bangladesh in recent months. as you know, representatives of various religious minorities - hindus, christians, sufis, buddhist monks - were murdered, as were voices that spoke in favour of secularism and religious pluralism. those who defend freedom of expression have been murdered, attacked or threatened. extremists and radicals are behind these crimes. i therefore reiterate the call that our parliament already made in november 2015 to the bangladeshi authorities to investigate these crimes independently and transparently, so that the perpetrators can be identified and punished. authorities in dhaka have already stated that they will have zero tolerance for such atrocities, that they will improve security and that they have started investigating some of the crimes committed. all these murders need to be investigated and we need to see results. it is true, on the other hand, as the minister said earlier, that in bangladesh we have a special situation politically, given that in the last election, the opposition did not participate. it inflames the spirits. i remind you that the election mission that we were supposed to send there has been cancelled. i repeat, the boycott of this election is the source of much tension. we are all aware of the importance of bangladesh as a partner, including as a trading partner. we must bear this in mind and ask our partners in dhaka to significantly improve the political and public climate in general.
mr president, bangladesh seems to be on a course departing from democracy and leaning towards insecurity. prime minister sheikh hasina seems to be determined to destroy the position of the bangladesh national party before the next election in 2018. this continues an already authoritarian course of eliminating any opposition, via banning political parties and changing laws that normally guarantee the integrity of elections. also five different islamist extremist attacks in the past year have been targeting minorities, activists and intellectuals. no one has been punished for any of these crimes; instead hasina blames the bnp for the attacks, giving justification for further persecuting and discrediting them in the name of national security. on an issue where all other powers, china, india and the united states, have failed to raise any alarm, the eu needs to put pressure on the bangladeshi government to respect the fundamental principles of democracy, those of free and fair elections, the right to political opposition and the responsibility of a government to protect its citizens from violence.
mr president, human rights, fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity are common values of democracy, of the rule of law, which must be reflected in all areas of the european union's internal and external policy. the fight against terrorism also requires respect for human dignity, privacy and all that fundamental human rights entail. the european union must guarantee respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, but at the same time guarantee the security of its citizens. strengthening transatlantic relations in the fight against terrorism must take on new value for the benefit of all, based on common interests and values. however, we believe that the excessive politicization of the issue of the existence of secret prisons, as well as the possible involvement of some eu countries by the cia in the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, is likely to affect the process of finding out the truth and bringing those responsible to justice that has begun in some member states. it is our duty to leave the member states the opportunity to complete their own judicial investigations and not to intervene in judicial proceedings, thus respecting the principle of impartiality and independence of the judiciary, confident that if there have been breaches of the law, the light will come on. it is important that we in the european parliament express a strong and firm conviction that it is absolutely necessary to have clear evidence before making nominations and engaging in sterile debates that do not end with concrete results.
member of the commission. – mr president, even though, as i said before, the matter falls under national competence, the commission has been following this issue closely and encouraged member states to ensure, within the remit of their competences, that such a situation does not arise again.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this interesting exchange of views. i think first of all we have all agreed, without any exception, that human rights and the rule of law and the fight against terror is something that can never be put in a relationship at the cost of one giving up the rights of people for the other. i think that is important. it is important to note that because we are still today fighting terror and terrorism and therefore i think all the research, the investigations, the reports that have been made were extremely important to enlighten us about what happened at the time. i have said also in the first part of my declaration what the view of the council is, ranging from the way we look at the policies of president obama to correcting what has happened before, including the so-called enhanced interrogation techniques, secret detention and the like. secondly, i have mentioned also the fact that we have a certain competence. while i do respect, certainly, the sharp oppositions being put against the council tonight, i think by ms in ‘t veld, i do not understand that now all at once the council collectively is responsible for this. i have told you why i think it is a shame what happened. i think it has to be investigated. i think we have a legal framework. i think there has never been any council decision being made, as you said, that we would cooperate with the united states on cia rendition flights, that is simply not true and i would like to see where that has been decided. the only declaration that has been made was after 9/11 to cooperate, as all of us did, with the united states in the fight against terror. if you can show me where you see that the council collectively is responsible for agreeing on rendition flights, i would be very interested to hear that because that sheds a new light on these events. i would like to be informed on this because you mentioned this in this debate. i fail to see that point and i am disappointed by it as well, since i have said here, on behalf of the council, how important i think it is that we learn from what has happened. i understand the quest for accountability. i think that accountability has to be done. i tell you here that we cannot change the competences of the european union and its institutions; maybe some of the political parties would like to have that, but i cannot change that. it is very easy to blame here the council in its entirety, you know that it is unjust, it is unfair and i would have liked that this debate would have led to another conclusion, namely that accountability goes where it is supposed to be not simply because there is somebody in front of you. secondly, that accountability goes through a strong legal system we have in europe. thirdly, that we clearly make as a council together, in its commonality, any discussion we have as the council that these kinds of human rights violations cannot be accepted, and we will continue to fight for human rights in the context of the necessary fight against terrorism and that we applaud the decisions taken by president obama. i hope maybe that can enlighten, nevertheless at the late evening, a little bit this debate, that it does not go on moral high ground or finger pointing but in something that really brings us further in the fight for accountability on these events that have taken place.
in writing. i consider that the text of the resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia makes serious allegations against some member states without providing the necessary evidence but based only on a patchwork of headlines, ngo allegations and misinterpretations. the us senate intelligence committee report and the romanian senate committee report on the presence of cia detention centers do not indicate any evidence to demonstrate the use of torture on cia prisoners in secret locations located on the territory of romania. moreover, the text of the resolution intervenes in ongoing national judicial investigations that were launched precisely to shed light on this endless story and undermines the problems of national security and sovereignty by calling on the european commission to present a white paper that defines what does not fall within the scope of the notion of national security. this request infringes national competences and has the potential to become a huge security breach in the future. thus, the text of this resolution does not reflect the needs and interests of europeans, but those of russia.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, commissioner, i believe that 2016 is a very important year for european space policy. there are two documents and events of the utmost importance: council on the 'common security and defence policy and the involvement of space technology in this policy' and the strategy you will present in the autumn for space policy. i hope that these two documents will resolve the future of space policy, the future of the current galileo and copernicus programmes, which need to be modernised. i would just like to refer to governance. i hope that you will be able to shape the governance of these programmes and bring the european agencies together with the commission and industry, and at the same time i would like to make a proposal to you. we need research and development and i think that a joint venture in this direction would be beneficial for europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the future of the european space policy and space sector here in the european parliament. i want to thank, in particular, the foreign affairs committee for its work on space capabilities for european security and defence that was coordinated by mr zdrojewski, with input from mr marinescu who represented the committee on industry, research and energy. i have to say that this debate is timely as we are now preparing the space strategy for europe that will be presented and adopted in the autumn of this year. this is also timely because these are challenging – but really exciting – times for space in the world and in europe. europe is today the second biggest player in space. space is crucial for security and defence, but it also generates an important spill-over effect in many other sectors, enabling business development, jobs creation and growth. of course, things are changing as the global context is evolving fast, competition is building up and the market is increasingly driven by the private sector. european companies need a market large enough to sell their products, yet this is not always the case, of course, today. our strategic assets such as critical technologies components and systems are really crucially important here. despite its increase, the budget available for space remains small compared to our competitors. we have to face these challenges together. europe cannot afford to treat it as ‘business as usual’ because competitors and partners are really moving fast. this is why the commission announced its intention to work towards the new space strategy for europe, and we intend to be inclusive – involving, of course, the member states, the european space agency, eumetsat, the industry and, of course, parliament. i therefore welcome our debate today and wish to engage more with you over the next month on space issues. but before i come to the space strategy, let me say just a few words on our european flagship space programmes, copernicus and galileo, because they are moving forward. as i commented several months ago, four out of six copernicus services are fully operational and the community of users is growing. we launched successfully another satellite in april. egnos is operational and two weeks ago we had another successful launch for galileo, which brings the number of satellites in orbit to 14. we really can, and should, be proud of that. of course, i have to mention the initial services which will start later this year. we hope to launch four more satellites in november. the main challenge now is to work to exploit these achievements for new or better services, products and applications. space solutions and technologies can have a decisive impact on high political priorities such as climate change, air quality, border management, transport, environment issues and security. actually, the largest impact may be outside of the space domain, per se. most of the growth and economic value will come from the commercial downstream uses of space. market uptake of our programmes is therefore at the heart of this strategy. we will propose measures in that sense. the role of the commission in the public sector should be as an enabler. we should promote favourable conditions and encourage businesses to develop innovative products and services. innovation clusters and business incubators will be supported. this will benefit smes and, of course, start—ups. we are also looking at how we can use smart financing and synergies among different eu programmes to increase the uptake of space. our top priority for copernicus is ensuring fast and easy access to data and services anywhere in europe, so we envisaged supporting the development of several industry—led platforms, making the most of the available data—processing technologies. we will identify any legislative, administrative and technical barriers that need to be addressed. on galileo, together with the gsa, we will continue to make chipsets and receivers galileo— and egnos—compatible and develop the relevant applications. our intention is to promote the use of egnos and galileo in various sectors, focusing of course on those with the highest potential. but we also need to take a strategic view. our main objective should be to bring the benefits of space to european society and to the european economy. we need a strategy to address the current and emerging challenges. we need a strategy that covers all the relevant public and private actors in europe. we want to mainstream the use of space to support public policies, providing effective solutions to the big societal challenges such as – as i said before – climate change, security, migration, and the digital agenda. we want to promote a globally—competitive european space sector that is innovative, agile and entrepreneurial, and create more jobs and, of course, more growth in europe. we want a space environment that is sustainable and remains accessible, safe and secure. this is the vision of the strategy that we are working on. we expect it to cover five main areas. first, as already said, we want to maximise the benefits of galileo and copernicus. second, we want to respond to emerging needs – for example, we may consider how space could better contribute to security policy, border surveillance and maritime security. we are also looking into the international developments taking place and how space technology could help our climate change agenda, notably with regard to co2 emissions. third, we want to boost the competitiveness of the european space industry throughout research, innovation and the modernisation of the industrial base. that means using opportunities from new business models to encourage greater involvement and risk—sharing by the private sector and a smart financing approach. fourth, we want to address the strategic aspects and dualist dimension of space. this means supporting the resilience and protection of critical space and ground infrastructure, including in the context of the current space surveillance and tracking framework. we are assessing how we can support europe’s independent access to space. when talking about security and strategic aspects of space, and similarly to what is said in the report of mr zdrojewski, i consider that space based capabilities and services can, and should, play a key role in the context of european security and defence. i particularly note the references in your report to govsatcom capacities, sst, precise navigation and earth observation. this is also an element discussed in the context of the announced european defence action plan which i am preparing together with vice—president katainen. finally, we want to strengthen the role and impact of the eu as a global actor. in april, we launch a broad public consultation process open until 12 july, to help us shape the strategy. to sum up and conclude, i see space as an enabler for solutions to key political priorities and societal challenges, as a vector for growth, enabling new services, new business opportunities in space, as an industrial sector in its own right, which is facing increasing challenges and needs to be supported, and as a strategic asset supporting europe’s autonomy of action on the global stage. the opportunities offered by space programmes will only be felt if they are used widely by both public and private users. that means stronger and more coordinated efforts at all levels – european, national and local. so we have to work together to bring the benefits of space closer to our citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we all see that the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the european union. it is characterised by terrorists attacks, hybrid wars, mass murder and other challenges to our common security and defence affecting all member states and to which all member states of the european union must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response. these security challenges call for the strengthening of the european union’s security through the continued development and support of the european union common security and defence policy, in order to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantee of the safety of eu citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values, as enshrined in the treaty on european union. space capabilities in europe – the satellites – could be used to better assess and identify the flow of illegal immigrants and their roots. in the case of those coming from north africa, they could be used to identify the ship-boarding areas in order to engage with them faster and save more lives, to improve naval security and to support european union missions abroad. the european council of june 2015, which focused on defence, called for the fostering of greater and more systematic european defence cooperation, with a view to delivering key capabilities, including through the coherent and efficient use of eu funds and existing eu capabilities. space policy is an essential component of the strategic autonomy which the european union must develop in order to safeguard sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and independent capabilities needed to carry out assessments. the references to financial implications for further development of the space capabilities in connection with the common security and defence policy should be maintained, as they are mainly about creating perspectives and not going against the provisions of the treaty. the european union/united states cooperation on future space-based capabilities and services for security and defence purposes is, in my opinion, mutually beneficial. finally, i believe that in the long term the european union must build its own instruments establishing a defence union in full complementarity with nato.
in writing. space policy developed in the context of the cold war, when the united states and the soviet union began the conquest of outer space, engaging in a space race. of course, the global political and technological landscape has changed fundamentally in the last 70 years. today, space policy means strategic opportunities in key areas such as telecommunications, transport and energy, weather and climate monitoring and, not least, security. but european space policy must be understood in a much broader geopolitical context. the eu does not yet have the profile of a major player in this area, although there have been sustained efforts since the early 2000s. on the one hand, these efforts must be seen in a highly competitive geopolitical environment, in which the eu must maintain a firm and coherent position for reasons of security and defence. on the other hand, it is not desirable for the eu to cause unexpected developments or global risks through its space policy. in this context, the line between risk and opportunity is very fine and must be rigorously analysed.
madam president, commissioner, there is a great need for investment in europe. that is why the epp group has supported this plan and will continue to support it. it was a good start. the figures show that things are going well, but i think you have to come to parliament with a different kind of analysis: a qualitative analysis. let's see if this fund filled a gap, so it replaced what couldn't be done with other instruments. let us see if this wish that you have expressed here, that the eib should keep its triple-a, is good, is a legitimate wish but this means that it will not finance high-risk projects, which is the first purpose of this fund. i think that a comparative analysis must be made with the financial instruments which are provided for in absolutely all european funds. has this fund replaced financial instruments? have financial instruments been used? if not, move the money from the financial instruments to the fund and in this way we can also recover the money for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. i think this analysis is absolutely necessary. the report must be made. you need offices everywhere so that people and institutions know what the efsi can do. we, the parliamentarians, can do this, but i think you and the eib have to do this first. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. yes, that is true. the figures show that in the eastern countries, there are not many projects. but i'm not really sure if it's because of the eib or the commission or maybe because of the lack of interest and lack of information in these countries. that is why i said at the end of my speech that information offices are needed, especially in these areas. it takes aggressive action, let's say, towards these areas, so that projects can be introduced there. i'm absolutely convinced that these projects exist.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i agree with what you said about the geographical distribution. i want to ask you specifically: do you think that the criteria used by the european fund for strategic investments - 'first come, first served' - help to improve cohesion or do they affect the cohesion we talk about in the treaty on european union?
blue-card question. – the geographic repartition is a very problematic issue. we need to know – and this is my question – what has been done, or will be done, to correct that – to allow less—developed financial member states’ markets to access finance through the european fund for strategic investments, and not only the most stable, technical—capacity countries. what should be done?
madam president, i have the following observation: you have doubled the time for almost all the speakers. i was the first man in the room at 9:00 and i sat two hours in the debate and didn't give me catch-the-eye. it seems unethical to me and it's not the first time you've done this. i think it's not even collegial, but, more importantly, it's not beneficial to the debate.
in writing. – the european investment plan should have brought a big change in the european economy. despite the efforts, it seems that the initial declaration do not match in reality. the multiplication effect expected is not there and only few countries are taking benefit of this opportunity. the commission is wrongly blaming the member states for their lack of involvement instead of correcting the errors of the plan. i therefore call on the commission to review the investment plan in order to: – allocate the financial resources based on the development needs of beneficiaries and regions by integrating the cohesion criteria – develop special instruments for start-ups with a special focus on youth and the poorest regions in europe – create distribution quotas for countries in order to enable an equitable access across europe – increase the transparency in the financial allocation and pro-actively engage in generating consortium in the countries having less experience in such type of financial aid the investment plan has to work, we have to raise the eur 315 billion expected to be invested through this mechanism, but we also have to make sure no inequalities are made and that everyone can benefit out of it.
in writing. as it stands, the launch of the investment plan proposed by the european commission was a good idea. the funds raised on the capital markets to finance the approved investment projects are significant and confirm the reality of the factor of multiplication of public resources envisaged by the initiators of the investment plan. however, we regret that there are member states, including romania, which do not yet have any projects funded under this plan. i believe that a further effort by the european commission is needed to identify projects that can be funded in each member state.
in writing. – the efforts of the ec and eib to reduce the eu investment gap show potential, especially in increased investments for a greater number of smes. it has to remain clear that the efsi financial support is additional; more private investment is yet to be attracted in order to generate more for the real economy. the success of boosting investments for an effective response to the economic and social crisis really depends on investment plan’s implementation achievements. projects and agreements to benefit from efsi have been approved in almost all member state. some countries are still struggling and romania is one of them. i believe that cee is a region where investments are needed the most and the ec should do more to help these countries in attracting private investment. the role of the eib is crucial here - more projects need to be supported to pass the aaa rating. without that we cannot talk about economic growth, social cohesion or transition to a sustainable economy. i welcome the extension of the lifetime of the efsi beyond 2018, but it needs to show more results and deliver better on the ground.
madam president, the terrorist attacks and the persistent risk of new ones are significantly affecting the key economy, as all my colleagues have already said. the country lost more than one third of its income from tourism last year, but the most important thing is that, in spite of tunisia being greatly affected by the instability in its surroundings, we are all in agreement today that this is the only successful democratic transition in the region and it is in our best interests to help tunisia and the tunisian people. europe has already provided substantial financial and technical assistance to this country. this should be reinforced by the conclusion soon of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement and i strongly support the idea of stronger asymmetrical trade relations with tunisia. this would be of benefit to the whole country. finally, i will just stress once more that there is an urgent need for europe to disburse as soon as possible the money to the tunisian people. i add my voice to those asking the eu banks to identify the penalised assets in order for the assets to be given back to the tunisian people.
in writing. ‒ given the increased incidence of money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud, it is necessary to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate these alleged irregularities. the role of this committee of inquiry is fundamental in ensuring compliance with the application of union law. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. it will also develop recommendations on measures to encourage third countries to apply minimum standards of good governance in tax matters and aggressive tax planning and assess the latest developments in relation to the commission's external strategy for effective taxation. i considered it appropriate to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in its application in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion in view of the negative financial and legal impact, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal that will set up a committee of inquiry of 65 members that will investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. the request for this committee to be set up was presented by 337 members of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of omission or non-application of several directives on european union law by the european commission and the member states, leading to its infringement and poor administration. i believe that taxation is a crucial area of activity for the development of every member state of the european union. consequently, the rules developed for the tax area need to be applied appropriately. in this respect, the report voted on today set out the spectrum of activity of this committee, as well as duration and compositional aspects. this committee will examine the application of the tax rules laid down by european directives, in particular those concerning the duty of sincere cooperation. i welcome the investigative approach that this committee of inquiry will take and hope that if it does find some institutional shortcomings at the level of the european commission, they will be resolved with the help of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the creation of the committee of inquiry as i see the need for better transparency in the area of tax and the necessity to have a body designated solely for investigation of alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. the committee will investigate failures by the commission and member states to enforce and implement various eu directives on tax. i am looking forward to receiving a final report within 12 months of the adoption of this decision.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver strengthens the partnership between the european union and the republic of palau, making progress towards deepening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will have a positive impact on tourism as well as facilitating investment. it should be noted that the republic of palau has a service-oriented economy with a vibrant tourism sector and this agreement will support the economic sectors. as regards concerns related to illegal migration, the confidence in visa applicants from palau is high, with a low visa refusal rate, therefore the republic of palau poses no threat from the perspective of mobility and public security. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a partnership that benefits both sides, contributing to the extension of free movement rights for the benefit of both union citizens and palau nationals.
in writing. ‒ the relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the cotonou agreement. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the republic of palau travelling through the territory of the other party. it will have positive effects, simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. i voted for rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for business people, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. the eu is currently negotiating comprehensive economic partnership agreements with 14 pacific countries, including palau. fishing, shellfish farming and tourism represent key development sectors. furthermore, palau has announced its intention of obtaining 20% its energy from renewable resources by 2020 and the government has launched economic diversification measures in order to reduce dependence on external aid. considering that this agreement will open up opportunities and advantages also for eu citizens, i supported its adoption.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on relations between the european union and the republic of palau shall be governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the member states of the european union, hereinafter referred to as the cotonou agreement. it provides for the short-stay visa-free travel of citizens of the european union and of the republic of palau travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of this report with direct and positive effects for investors, tourism development and economic progress.
in writing. ‒ palau is an archipelago composed of more than 500 islands, part of the micronesia region in the western pacific ocean. relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by a partnership agreement also known as the cotonou agreement. i voted for this recommendation that will provide visa-free travel for the citizens of the two parts when travelling to the other for a maximum period of 90 days.
in writing. ‒ the european union supports the development of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, especially following the ratification of the cotonou agreement, which strengthens economic and cultural relations with these countries, focusing on specific issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu is currently negotiating comprehensive economic partnership agreements with 14 pacific countries, which aim to strengthen cooperation, particularly in the areas of tourism, fisheries and marine resources. among these countries is palau, an island country with a democratic regime and values, respecting human rights, good governance and the rule of law. in recent years, the country has made important progress, particularly in combating trafficking in human beings and in the area of women's and children's rights, as well as in the field of renewable energy. in these circumstances, the signing of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for the nationals of the two parties is a normal development, especially in the context of the absence of negative events in the bilateral relationship. this agreement will allow citizens of both parties to travel more easily for business or tourism, strengthening the existing good relations. that is why i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver strengthens the partnership between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, making progress towards deepening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will have a positive impact on the main economic sectors, facilitating investment and fostering entrepreneurial mobility. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of the kingdom of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, including all categories of persons. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the european parliament, the european commission, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. consequently, this kingdom poses no threat from the point of view of mobility and public security. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a partnership that benefits both sides, contributing to the extension of free movement rights for the benefit of both union citizens and nationals of the kingdom of tonga.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a step towards stabilising relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, which has major political significance in the cotonou agreement, and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. although the union is less important in terms of trade of this country, it has a high potential for development. as regards mobility, the available data show that confidence in tongan visa applicants is high. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver allows citizens not only to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it, travelling at low cost from an economic and practical point of view.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will open up opportunities and advantages also for eu citizens, as any existing requirement for eu citizens to travel to these countries will be eliminated. i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga are governed by the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the member states of the european union, hereinafter referred to as the cotonou agreement. it provides for the short-stay visa-free travel of citizens of the european union and of the kingdom of tonga travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of this report, which has direct and positive effects on the energy industry, particularly renewables, on the development of tourism and on economic progress.
in writing. ‒ tonga is a polynesian kingdom consisting of more than 170 islands, many of them uninhabited. relations between the european union and tonga are governed by a partnership agreement also known as the cotonou agreement. i have voted for this recommendation that will provide visa-free travel for the citizens of the two parts when traveling to the other for a maximum period of 90 days.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relations with the acp countries have developed considerably in recent times, especially in the context of the cotonou agreement. in this context, eu relations with tonga have also developed positively, strengthening the political dialogue between the two sides. in recent years, tonga has made significant progress towards democratization and respect for human rights, especially since the first free elections were held in 2010. the role of civil society organisations has also increased, which has contributed to intensifying debates on the abolition of the death penalty, religious freedom, combating violence against women and gender equality. the elimination of short-stay visas for nationals of both parties would be a positive message in light of the recent good bilateral relations. this important step would contribute to strengthening social, cultural and business relations between the two sides, including the development of the tourism sector. i welcome this measure and express my support for this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver strengthens the partnership between the european union and the republic of colombia, and represents progress towards deepening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the republic of colombia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, including all categories of persons. as regards concerns related to illegal migration, confidence in colombian visa applicants increased, as they do not pose risks related to irregular migration, with a low level of visa refusal rate (4,3%). consequently, this republic does not pose any threat from the point of view of mobility and public security. the agreement also provides for enhanced cooperation on irregular migration, with the eu and colombia reiterating their commitment to readmit their own irregular migrants. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i consider it to be a partnership that benefits both parties, contributing to the extension of the rights of free movement for the benefit of both union citizens and nationals of the republic of colombia.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a success in terms of deepening relations between the european union and the republic of colombia, as well as a further means of strengthening economic relations. in terms of mobility, colombia has made great strides to stop irregular migration. i voted for a strategic partnership on security and the fight against organised crime, and for a strengthening of cooperation between the european union and colombia.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will also strengthen regional coherence, given that colombia is one of the minority of latin american countries whose nationals still need a visa and is of considerable importance in bringing the peoples of europe and colombia closer together. the agreement also contains a joint declaration on cooperation with regard to irregular immigration in which the eu and colombia reaffirm their undertakings regard to the readmission of irregular migrants. this agreement will open up opportunities and advantages also for eu citizens, as any existing requirement for eu citizens to travel to these countries will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and of the republic of colombia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period in order to further encourage trade, investment, tourism and economic progress.
in writing. ‒ following a favourable assessment of the situation in the republic of colombia the european council adopted on the 19th of may 2015 a decision that authorises the commission to open a negotiation with a view to the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the eu and the republic of colombia. i have voted for this recommendation that will provide visa-free travel for the citizens of the two parts when travelling to the other for a maximum period of 90 days.
in writing. ‒ the european union has very good relations with latin american countries and promotes their strengthening through all existing instruments. colombia is one of the few countries in the region whose nationals still need to obtain short-stay visas. this was because, internally, the country was wracked by a long and costly conflict with the farc guerrillas. however, significant progress has been made in recent years in this regard, in particular following the adoption of the law on victims and land restitution in 2011 and the start of peace negotiations in 2012, which could soon lead to a final agreement. at the same time, colombia has a competitive democratic regime and respects human rights and fundamental freedoms, and has made significant progress in ensuring the safety of women and children from armed conflict and in combating organised crime. the abolition of short-stay visas would provide a further impetus to the reforms still needed and would contribute to strengthening eu-colombia relations, in particular in the areas of combating drug and human trafficking, illegal migration, security and cultural, social and business cooperation. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the expansion of trade in information technology products aims to eliminate customs duties on all information technology products that are covered. the duty-free regime conferred by this agreement has an important role in strengthening and expanding trade in the information technology sector. approximately 200 tariff lines are concerned, covering computers, telephones, but also production factors, components and machines for the manufacture of computer products. as a result of the negotiations, 65% of tariff lines will be completely eliminated by 1 july 2016, with the aim of eliminating almost all customs duties on imports of the products covered by the agreement by 2019. the expansion of trade in information technology products is a step forward in the process of reducing tariffs, with a major positive impact in boosting employment as well as in boosting the growth of gross domestic product, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement was concluded at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. in 2015, an agreement was reached on a further list of it products. the value of annual trade in those products is estimated at over usd 1,3 trillion per year and constitutes approximately 10% of total world trade at present. the products covered by the agreement include gps navigation systems, a range of medical products, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. i voted for the extension of the information technology agreement because it has the potential to create jobs and stimulate economic growth.
in writing. ‒ this landmark deal was one of the significant outcomes from the nairobi ministerial. it aims to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products valued at over usd 1.3 trillion per year. negotiations on the expanded information technology agreement of 1996 (ita) were conducted by 53 wto members, including both developed and developing countries, which account for approximately 90 per cent of world trade in these products. however, all wto members will benefit from the agreement, as they will all enjoy duty-free market access to the markets of the members eliminating tariffs on these products. the expanded ita should boost the eu manufacturing sector, allowing easier access to new markets; like its 1996-predecessor it should continue to promote jobs, offer lower prices to consumers and boost economic growth and foster innovation. it will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries.
in writing. ‒ the information technology agreement (ita) currently covers 82 member states and provides for the elimination and consolidation of customs duties to zero, on the basis of the most favoured nation clause for all the it products concerned. i voted in favour of this report for the exemption of customs duties for participants and for the development and considerable expansion of trade in the it sector. i support the extension of this agreement, which encourages job creation and stimulates the economy.
in writing. ‒ during the ministerial conference in singapore in december 1996 the first information technology agreement (ita) entered into force in 1997. i have voted for this recommendation that aims to expand the ita highlighting its huge potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ the objective of an agreement on the extension of trade in information technology (it) products is to eliminate tariffs on some it products. the commission estimates that the agreement covers eu exports worth between eur 74 and 150 billion. the products under negotiation are essential intermediate products for many eu exports and are expected to have significant effects on the value chain. a general equilibrium simulation shows that total exports of goods could increase by around 0,7% to 1,4% compared to the baseline. this currently means an increase of eur 12 to 24 billion in the value of exports of additional goods to third countries. eu exporters will also save between eur 0,8 and eur 2,1 billion in taxes on exports to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the quisthoudt report, which supports the revision and extension of the information technology agreement, so that the new generation of modern it products can benefit from customs facilities. in this way, 201 products will benefit from the gradual elimination of customs duties.
in writing. ‒ i support the dossier of this landmark deal which was one of the significant outcomes from the nairobi ministerial. it aims to eliminate tariffs on information technology products valued at over $1.3 trillion per year. negotiations on the expanded information technology agreement of 1996 (ita) were conducted by 53 wto members, including both developed and developing countries, which account for approximately 90 per cent of world trade in these products. however, we shall remember that all wto members will benefit from the agreement, as they will all enjoy duty-free market access to the markets of the members eliminating tariffs on these products. the expanded ita should boost the eu manufacturing sector, allowing easier access to new markets; like its 1996-predecessor it should continue to promote jobs, offer lower prices to consumers and boost economic growth and foster innovation. it will benefit consumers, producers and the economies of both the eu and partner countries. i look forward to another update of ita in 2018. i hope that when negotiations reopen then and progress would be made in reducing non-tariff barriers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itp). the first information technology agreement (ita) was concluded at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. although only 29 wto member states signed the agreement at the initial stage, the number of states participating in the ati is now 82. the value of eu exports of products covered by the ati following the extension of this agreement amounts to eur 189 billion, and this figure is expected to increase significantly following the tariff reductions. the implementation of the agreement will lead to lower prices for consumers, but also for producers, whose business depends on imported components. however, some sectors will face increased competition. the rapporteur therefore welcomes the eu strategy, which has negotiated for longer periods of time for the phasing out of duties on products considered sensitive, while most tariff lines for products not considered sensitive will be eliminated upon entry into force of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ α-pvp is a psychoactive substance detected in all 28 member states and imported into the european market from china. 115 deaths and 191 intoxications caused by this substance have been reported at member state level. although there are no comprehensive studies on the risk of this substance, observations in animals have shown that the harmful effects are similar in humans. however, a risk assessment report has been carried out highlighting the toxicity of this substance, which seriously affects human health. i therefore consider it necessary to subject the psychoactive substance α-pvp to control measures and therefore i am in favour of this report. nothing can be more important than ensuring high standards for human health, and any initiative to this end enjoys my support.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal for a council decision is to call upon the member states to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal penalties as provided under their legislation by virtue of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. currently, sixteen member states control α-pvp under national legislation complying with the obligations of the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances and five member states use other legislative measures to control it. subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would help avoid the emergence of obstacles in cross-border law enforcement and judicial cooperation, and would help protect from the risks that its availability and use can pose. i supported the report as it will lead to the reduction of the use of these kind of substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on member states to subject the new psychoactive substances 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pirolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pirolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures and criminal proceedings. the placing of this substance under control at european union level would help to avoid the emergence of possible cross-border barriers to law and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, first of all, we need to protect the environment, but at the same time we need to help the victims of such a maritime accident, and this can only be done through a coherent policy framework on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea. in accordance with the 1996 convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, it is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions dealing with compensation and liability for damage caused by the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. as regards the 2010 convention, it establishes the strict liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous or noxious substances for any damage resulting from an incident related to the transport of substances at sea and on board that ship. both conventions overlap with the scope of directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability of operators carrying out professional activities, including maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea - hns convention - represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment. the ratification of the 2010 protocol, which represents practically the ratification of the hns convention in its new form of 2010 is considered to be very important for the eu, as it provides for improved protection of the victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hns by sea, but there are divisions in terms of the period in which that should be done and the terms that the council established for it. in order for the convention to enter into force, some member states would like a swift ratification, while others are not yet ready to ratify. i support a swift ratification of this protocol, but council should reconsider its position, and should see that it is not beneficial to create legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states in an issue that has so many cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to set up a coherent eu policy framework for the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances within the eu.
in writing. ‒ the hns convention also known as the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea was set-up in 1996. i have voted for this interim report that aims to ensure that the establishment of a uniform liability regime, with the exception of aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, is done in the most effective and fair fashion.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea – hns convention – represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment. the ratification of the 2010 protocol, which represents practically the ratification of the hns convention in its new form of 2010 is considered to be very important for the eu, as it provides for improved protection of the victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hns by sea, but there are divisions in terms of the period in which that should be done and the terms that the council established for it. i therefore welcome a swift ratification by all member states. the council should reconsider its position, and should see that it is not beneficial to create legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states in an issue that has so many cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 hns convention ensures uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea in the eu. sufficient funds are made available for compensation to victims, and it is therefore considered that an international regime, rather than regional solutions, is more appropriate to ensure uniform application of the rules on compensation and liability for marine casualties. this interim report should not be seen as an obstacle to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but rather as an effort to ensure that this process is carried out with maximum efficiency and fairness, without affecting the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of eu law, but also without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution and for the shipping industry. i voted in favour of this report because we need to protect the environment but at the same time we need to help the victims of such a maritime accident, and this can only be done through a coherent political and legal framework on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea.
in writing. ‒ the environmental liability directive does not provide for compensation to victims beyond the limits of the ship owner's liability. the existing legal framework in the eu also does not include any requirement for compulsory insurance, whereas the convention specifically sets out this obligation for ship owners, coupled with the right of claimants to bring direct actions against the insurer. an international regime, rather than regional solutions, is more appropriate to ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances at sea within the eu, given that this is a global commercial activity. i voted in favour of a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, given the worldwide dimension of this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea – hns convention – represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment. the ratification of the 2010 protocol, which represents practically the ratification of the hns convention in its new form of 2010 is considered to be very important for the eu, as it provides for improved protection of the victims of damage in connection with the carriage of hns by sea, but there are divisions in terms of the period in which that should be done and the terms that the council established for it. in order for the convention to enter into force, some member states would like a swift ratification, while others are not yet ready to ratify. i support a swift ratification of this protocol, but council should reconsider its position, and should see that it is not beneficial to create legal uncertainty and divisions between legal regimes in member states in an issue that has so many cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ the hns convention also known as the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea was set-up in 1996. i have voted for this interim report that aims to ensure that the establishment of a uniform liability regime, with regard to aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters, is done in the most effective and fair fashion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (accession of croatia). because i believe that cooperation is very beneficial for the eu member states economically, politically and culturally, but also for the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. thus, taking into account the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, a common denominator has been reached. it is therefore for the president to inform the parliament, the council and the commission, as well as the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines, of their position.
in writing. ‒ since the philippines obtained gsp+ status in december 2014, the republic of the philippines has been able to export to europe without tariff barriers over 65% of all its products, with the member states and the european union being the main trading partners and investors in the philippines. i believe that this statute, together with the funds allocated by the union to development cooperation, contributes positively to the consolidation of democracy in the republic of the philippines and its neighbourhood. i therefore wish to encourage the republic of the philippines to continue its efforts to effectively implement its obligations and commitments in the areas of human and workers' rights, the environment and good governance in order to continue to benefit from this status. i voted in favour of this report for the conclusion of an additional protocol allowing the republic of croatia to become party to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, signed in phnom penh prior to croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu - philippines framework agreement represents, in my opinion, an important step with regard to a major partner in the region for the eu. we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade. trade, geo-strategic and security issues are very important considering the delicate regional situation, given china’s increasing assertiveness and territorial claims, maritime security and potential terrorism concerns. i am very concerned about the south china sea issue and the risk of conflict faced with chinese assertiveness. therefore, i support the call on the vice president/high representative to identify how the eu should best engage in bilateral and multilateral security cooperation. finally, i believe we must call for an effective implementation of the un guiding principles regarding business and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ since 1980 the eec-asean cooperation agreement has governed the relationship between the philippines and the european union. the european union and the philippines’ initial partnership and cooperation agreement was initialled on 25 june 2010. i have voted for this recommendation that will take into account, for this agreement, the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (approval procedure) because i believe that the best possible cooperation is very beneficial from the economic, political and cultural point of view both for the eu member states and for the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. both the request for the draft protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, and the non-legislative resolution of 2016 on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union have been forwarded for approval and have been laid before the council in accordance with articles 207, 209 and 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. thus, taking into account the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, a common denominator has been reached. it is therefore for the president to inform the parliament, the council and the commission, as well as the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines, of their position.
in writing. ‒ the republic of the philippines, as a founding member of asean and with longstanding cooperative relations, is a reliable partner of the european union in south-east asia, both in trade and in the fight against terrorism. the republic of the philippines has also become a model in human rights for its neighbouring states by ratifying eight of the nine major conventions in this field. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the framework partnership agreement, wanting to stress the major importance of continued european financial support and assistance to strengthen democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the implementation of policies for environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ the eu - philippines framework agreement represents, in my opinion, an important step with regard to a major partner in the region for the eu. we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade. trade, geo-strategic and security issues are very important considering the delicate regional situation, given china’s increasing assertiveness and territorial claims, maritime security and potential terrorism concerns. i am very concerned about the south china sea issue and the risk of conflict faced with chinese assertiveness. therefore, i support the call on the vice-president/high representative to identify how the eu should best engage in bilateral and multilateral security cooperation. finally, i believe we must call for an effective implementation of the un guiding principles regarding business and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ since 1980 the eec-asean cooperation agreement has governed the relationship between the philippines and the european union. the european union and the philippines’ initial partnership and cooperation agreement was initialled on the 25 june 2010. i have voted for this recommendation on eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation consent.
in writing. ‒ since the mid-1960s, the republic of the philippines has been an important trading partner of european states in south-east asia. union funds and humanitarian assistance have proven to be key factors in the democratization of philippine society, the strengthening of the rule of law and the creation of a framework that has enabled considerable progress in respect for human rights. i welcome the considerable efforts made by the philippine government to strengthen its capacity to combat terrorism and extremism, but i wish to express my concern regarding the spread of islamist propaganda and the increase in the number of extremists in the region. in order to address these emerging trends, the republic of the philippines needs to develop its institutional capacity by ensuring respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, reducing poverty, increasing social inclusion and promoting social peace. i voted in favour of this report, wanting to ask the philippine government and the governments of the member states to continue to work together both in the fight against terrorism, human trafficking and poverty, and in the establishment of measures to protect human rights and labour, environmental and governance rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu - philippines framework agreement represents, in my opinion, an important step with regard to a major partner in the region for the eu. we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade. trade, geo-strategic and security issues are very important considering the delicate regional situation, given china’s increasing assertiveness and territorial claims, maritime security and potential terrorism concerns. i am very concerned about the south china sea issue and the risk of conflict faced with chinese assertiveness. therefore, i support the call on the vice-president/high representative to identify how the eu should best engage in bilateral and multilateral security cooperation. finally, i believe we must call for an effective implementation of the un guiding principles regarding business and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to encourage progress on the promotion of human rights, including the publication of the national action plan on human rights, as well as on the elimination of corruption and the development of the economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ since 1980 the eec-asean cooperation agreement has governed the relationship between the philippines and the european union. the european union and the philippines initial partnership and cooperation agreement was initialled on 25 june 2010. i have voted for this recommendation on eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines, upon the recognition that the eu-philippines relationship is to be cherished now more than ever. such recognition is sustained, among other reasons, on the relevance of current trade and investment relations, the strategic role to be played by the philippines in the south china sea and in countering the potential expansion of international terrorism in south-east asia. further challenges are faced by the country at present, as appears clear in current internal conflict and the desirability of continued progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights. the agreement will continue to facilitate eu provision support to the philippines towards overcoming such issues, particularly financial support and capacity-building assistance.
in writing. ‒ the european union is actively pursuing the development of relations with the countries of south-east asia. one of these countries is the philippines, with a population of 100 million and a booming economy. unfortunately, the country still faces a number of problems with respect to human rights, social rights and environmental standards. there are also a number of sovereignty issues with neighbouring countries over maritime borders, as well as a significant dimension of islamic terrorism in some regions of the country. however, the current proposal for a framework partnership and cooperation agreement is an important step in developing the eu's relations with the country, particularly in the area of trade and business, but also in strengthening international security, managing climate change and monitoring respect for human rights and labour law. i consider this an important step in the bilateral relationship and i support this initiative.
in writing. i voted for the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (resolution) whereby the ep welcomes the conclusion of this agreement. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the republic of the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, assisting the country in disaster preparedness, humanitarian aid and assistance, and in implementing effective climate change policies. the ep also encourages the republic of the philippines to continue to improve the investment climate, including the isd climate, by increasing transparency and good governance, by implementing the un guiding principles on trade and human rights and by further developing infrastructure through public-private partnerships, as appropriate.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently going through a very difficult period. recent terrorist attacks have deeply affected key economic sectors of this country. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress in stabilising the national democratic transition process. in this context, macro-financial assistance is a european financial mechanism that can be mobilised to support a third country in crisis. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes, including the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia, the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan and the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan. in august 2015, in response to the request of the tunisian government, the european commission established a second macro-financial assistance programme for the benefit of tunisia. this programme is intended to support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable environment for investment. i therefore support the european commission's proposal and hope that this programme, which provides for additional assistance to tunisia, can be put into effect as soon as possible to support tunisia at this crucial time.
in writing. ‒ the good path that tunisia had begun was hampered by bombings and terrorist attacks, which deeply affected key economic sectors of this country, such as tourism. the economic growth rate, which should have been 3% in 2015, has been revised downwards, being estimated at 0.5% for 2016, while the unemployment rate is on average 15% for women, at 20%, and for young people who have completed higher education at 28.6%. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress in stabilising the national democratic transition process. the union is committed to supporting tunisia's economic and social development, including through the development of a stronger economy, a stronger economy and a stronger economy. i voted for this programme, which provides for additional assistance to tunisia, to be put into effect as soon as possible to support that country at this crucial time.
in writing. ‒ tunisia remains the arab awakening’s last best hope. the country’s political transition is as remarkable as it is fragile, threatened by both security challenges and significant socioeconomic obstacles. i believe we all want to see tunisia’s economic and social development continue and therefore we should support this latest tranche of macro financial assistance (mfa) to the sum of eur 500 million. this is a way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy, bring about an environment more conducive to investment and urgently address unemployment. i strongly hope that this financial aid will improve public-finance management, operation of the fiscal system, strengthen the social safety net, overhaul the financial sector and improve the regulatory framework for trade and investment. moreover, i welcome the fact that this proposal will also introduce some changes to the standard micro financial assistance (mfa) text, which will draw on experience and best practice of previous mfa agreements in order to more effectively distribute money.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently experiencing a difficult economic and social situation, reflected in high unemployment, lack of absorption of young labour and instability in security. in this context, tunisia fulfils the political conditions necessary for the provision of macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million in the form of medium-term soft loans, a european financial mechanism that can be mobilised to support a third country in crisis. i voted in favour of this report which supports the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance its balance of payments and create social and financial balance and stability.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has now a constitution that safeguards rights and freedoms, empowered media and a consolidated judicial system. i have voted for this report that will grant macro-financial assistance to tunisia in the form of medium-term financial-market loans.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has been successful in its transition towards democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law and the country stands by itself as an example to be followed, in a region of the world overwhelmed by conflict. however, tunisia`s economy has been very affected by the terrorist attacks of 2015 and in recent months there has been a rise in unemployment, which has triggered a large number of protests against the government. in 2014, an initial eur 300 million programme was approved for tunisia in order to strengthen the social safety net, improve the financial sector and the regulatory framework for trade and investment. nevertheless, in light of the terrorist attacks of 2015, i support an additional programme of eur 500 million, in the form of micro finance assistance (mfa), in order to consolidate tunisia`s democracy, address the issue of unemployment and create an attractive environment for investors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of macro-financial assistance to tunisia. tunisia has managed to consolidate its progress towards a democratic transition, but is currently going through a very difficult period. tunisia has repeatedly been the target of terrorist attacks and bombings that have deeply affected key economic sectors of the country, such as tourism. despite these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress in stabilising the national democratic transition process. it is very important that tunisia's efforts are successful and that the country keeps under control all the forces that seek to destabilise it. i believe that europe must show solidarity and act decisively to provide assistance and support to tunisia in its development process through concrete actions that bring direct benefits to the people of this country.
in writing. ‒ tackling cross-border tax avoidance practices must be a priority for the european authorities, taking into account situations where taxpayers act without respecting the real purpose of the legislation, taking advantage of differences between national tax systems to reduce their tax contributions. this distorts business decisions in the internal market and, if not addressed effectively, could create an environment of unfair tax competition. the panama scandal once again confirms the need for legally binding rules to enable member states to effectively combat the avoidance of obligations by businesses, so as to maintain their collective competitiveness and respect the single market, the freedoms enshrined in the treaty, the eu charter of fundamental rights and eu law in general. i voted in favour of this report because this initiative brings added value compared to what could be achieved by a multitude of national methods.
in writing. ‒ aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals costs governments worldwide between $100 and $240 billion a year. this represents between 4 and 10% of worldwide corporate tax revenues. this significant loss reduces the capacity of states to develop projects for employment, poverty reduction and development of high-performing health systems for all. the main objective of this report is to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits. i voted for a coordinated and harmonised approach to the implementation of tax systems.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion by multinationals is fundamental in regaining the confidence of european citizens. moreover, i agree with the more comprehensive position on profits that should be taxed where they are created. firstly, i support a stricter interest limitation rule. i am in favour of the new common definition on permanent establishment that should be applied by member states, both in relevant legislation and bilateral tax treaties, in order to ensure consistency and to make sure profits are taxed where the economic activity takes place. i also believe that we should develop a common method of calculation of the effective tax rate in each member state, to make it possible to draw up a comparative table of the effective tax rates across the member states. until now, multinationals have used patent incentives to artificially reduce their profits. this has an adverse impact on genuinely innovative countries. these multinationals should be subject to an exit tax where they repatriate proceeds from patents to countries with lower tax rates. consequently, i agree that the commission should bring forward a proposal on a withholding tax to make sure profits are taxed before leaving the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe in strengthening economic and monetary union through harmonisation of european taxation. i also believe that the taxation issue must be tackled in an efficient and harmonised way across member states to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market and the success of capital markets. this report is an encouraging step towards making multinationals pay their taxes fairly, in proportion to their profits, but also towards limiting tax evasion and eliminating tax havens that put pressure on smes and encourage unfair competition. this would avoid the harm created by instruments that artificially reduce the volume of multinational profits. clear and harmonised legislation would promote the transparency of the european economic environment and foster employment, combat poverty and develop high-performing health systems for all.
in writing. ‒ it is important to mention that commissioner moscovici presented the anti-tax avoidance package this year, a package which has 4 proposals in order to fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance and ensure greater tax transparency. one of these proposals is the council directive laying down the rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market – the anti-tax avoidance directive. the fight against tax evasion by multinationals is fundamental in regaining the confidence of european citizens. some rules should be applied not only in the eu but also outside it. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a study made by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) estimated that aggressive tax optimisation made by multinationals causes losses to state budgets of somewhere between 100 and 240 billion each year, worldwide. i have voted for this report that will ensure that enterprises pay their taxes where they make their profits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it encourages tax practices that are beneficial to the internal business environment of the european union. it is commendable that the european parliament has approved rules for the implementation of fair and efficient taxation of businesses within the eu, the rules being developed in line with the european commission's action plan. one of the new provisions adopted in this report aims to eliminate double taxation, a practice used to avoid tax obligations by businesses in the member states. in this respect, the report envisages the introduction of a switch-over clause which, by being applied in business credit agreements, will help avoid the risk of profit shifting from high-tax jurisdictions to low-tax territories. i also welcome the adoption of the general anti-abuse rule designed to complement the laws of the member states in order to prevent abusive tax practices by companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the bayet report because companies that make a profit have to pay taxes too. the directive includes six measures to combat tax planning and proposes common definitions such as 'permanent residence', 'tax havens' and 'economic substance', but these definitions have given rise to interpretations. this legislative framework is the union's response to the final draft on the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd).
in writing. ‒ i support this ambitious report, which aims at influencing the council to agree on a comprehensive text to ensure that profits are taxed where they are created. in light of the panama papers scandal, european citizens need reassurance that the european union will take serious action in order to combat tax evasion. i believe that the fight against tax evasion by multinationals plays a fundamental part in regaining our citizens` trust.
in writing. ‒ the climate of impunity regarding the cia programs still represents a menace towards the values of justice, equity and dignity on which our societies are built on. we cannot forget that the concepts of democracy human rights and rule of law are the core priority of our society, and that the issue of security should not put our values aside. these are some of the reasons why i strongly support the question to the council. a follow-up on the council’s declaration acknowledging member states’ involvement in the cia programme and the difficulties encountered by member states in the context of inquiries is needed. council should have been holding hearings with relevant eu security agencies to clarify their knowledge of member states’ involvement in the cia programme and the eu’s response. moreover, it should have proposed safeguards so as to guarantee respect for human rights in intelligence-sharing.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the member states mentioned in 'investigation of alleged cases of transport and illegal detention of prisoners by the cia in european countries' have carried out the necessary investigations on the basis of international and national law or to ensure clarification of the situation. i voted against the parliament's resolution because, unfortunately, the accusations are escalating and are not based on concrete evidence. as regards the mention of romania, allegations without any basis have been made in the past. however, romania responded to all requests from the european institutions and has hosted the cia commission and the parliamentary documentation mission of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in bucharest on several occasions over the years. all information has been made available. romania carried out the necessary investigations and made the results available to interested parties. i believe it is time to close this file, to take concrete steps towards combating terrorism and to make efforts to protect contemporary society, which is currently facing a number of challenges.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution about the us senate report regarding the use of torture by the cia because the report creates an unjustified difference between romania and the other suspected countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, as the coordinator of the romanian parliament's investigation into this issue, having access to official documents and following the subject through the prism of statements by officials, but also of journalistic revelations over the years, i can state that, if there was a so-called bright light (the building that is said to have been used as a detention centre), the judicial authorities should have known about its existence and not the ministry of foreign affairs, as claimed in this report. furthermore, the existence of this detention centre was revealed through journalistic investigation which i respect, but my legal training leads me to have, in the absence of a criminal investigation, reservations about the statements made in these disclosures.
madam president, the militarization of space has become a major risk due to the development of anti-satellite technologies, including orbital weapons, which can be used by terrorists and other non-state actors. the report identifies cyber threats to the european space programmes. for example, jamming or altering the source from which data packets are sent can jeopardise military missions and have implications for life on earth. we must respond with one voice and through coordinated and rapid action, in permanent collaboration between the european union, the united states and nato.
in writing. ‒ terrorist attacks and mass killings are real threats. the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and difficult to protect, so we need concerted action to counter the threats we face. common strategies and a strengthened response are needed, thus making it necessary to strengthen the european union's security policy by continuously developing and supporting the eu's common security and defence policy, in order to make it a real guarantee for the security of european citizens. space capabilities are important for european security and defence, from their peacetime use to managing crises and more acute security challenges, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ with the security environment becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging both inside and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks affecting all member states and to which they must respond by adopting a common and strengthened strategy, the eu must take a more active role as a provider of security inside and outside the union, ensuring stability in its neighbourhood and globally. the eu's space policy promotes scientific and technical progress, industrial competitiveness and the implementation of all eu policies. these programmes bring security and defence advantages that are technologically linked to the benefits. we voted for better space cooperation, which aims to ensure an adequate level of security.
in writing. ‒ the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks, hybrid war and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response. these security challenges call for the strengthening of the eu’s security through the continued development and support of the eu common security and defence policy to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantee of the safety of eu citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values as enshrined in article 21 teu. the european council of june 2015, which focused on defence, called for the fostering of greater and more systematic european defence cooperation with a view to delivering key capabilities, including through the coherent and efficient use of eu funds and existing eu capabilities. space policy is an essential component of the strategic autonomy which the eu must develop in order to safeguard sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and independent capabilities to carry out assessments. i therefore supported the adoption of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the european union to develop multifunctional technologies serving defence and security purposes, to create and promote models and systems that provide security and defence services and to build a legal framework that would enable eu-wide investment in space capabilities for european security and defence - this would entail broader and more systematic defence cooperation at this level.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging. i have voted for this report that aims to strengthen eu security and increase its role as a security provider at home and abroad ensuring stability in its neighbourhood and globally.
in writing. ‒ recently, the security of the european union has begun to be threatened by high-risk phenomena such as terrorist attacks, hybrid warfare and mass murder, which can affect all member states. the answer should be a new common and coordinated strategy within the european security and defence policy, aimed at the safety of european citizens and the protection of european norms, interests and values. one component of this policy is the union's space capabilities, as manifested by the presence of european satellites or those of member states in space. they could be used for early detection of possible threats to eu security, for example to identify flows and routes of illegal immigrants or boarding areas, in order to save lives. the european council of june 2015 on defence supported the need for systematic cooperation at european level, including through the efficient use of existing european funds and capabilities, including the union's space policy. in this way, important eu defence capabilities could be developed which, beyond their military application, would be important tools for the security of european citizens. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the development of a space market can make a significant contribution to economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion and job creation. given that the eu currently lacks an integrated and coherent space policy, i believe that there is a need to implement flagship space programmes that demonstrate the european union's added value and potential in this sector. space data and services can play an important role, giving europe the chance to be at the forefront of major technological trends such as the internet of things, smart cities and beyond. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the development of a coherent eu strategy in this area, which should, among other things, have the role of supporting space entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to input into the commission’s upcoming strategy on space policy, foreseen for the fall 2016. it aims to ensure that ep’s priorities (to ensure europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on the global markets, with an independent access to space for europe and a level playing field for the industry) are pursued in the forthcoming commission’s document. it highlights, amongst others, the need to focus the new strategy on market uptake of space data and services to maximise socio-economic benefits from the eu’s space programmes, the need for the regional dimension to be taken into account, with support for an increased role of regional and local authorities; and the need to increase efforts of awareness-raising to promote the potential of european space programmes to the public and private sector and end users. space policy is a fundamental contributor to the implementation of union’s policies (transport, energy, environment, agriculture, etc.) and thus needs to be given a high level of recognition in boosting eu economic activity and creating jobs. european space industry needs an appropriate normative framework that allows for a level playing field and to ensure it contributes to its fullest in providing its services to the benefit of all eu citizens. i therefore supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that recommends the commission to set up a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy, ensuring in the short, medium and long-term europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on global markets.
in writing. ‒ the eu's space activities are of particular importance for technical and scientific progress, economic growth, industrial competitiveness, social cohesion, the creation of skilled jobs and businesses. we urge the commission to respect the timetable and ensure the rapid and full functioning of the space and ground infrastructure and services provided by the galileo and copernicus programmes, especially as the union will invest over eur 11 billion in the infrastructure of these programmes by 2020. the avoidance of further delays is essential to maintain private sector confidence. i would highlight the opportunities on the global european gnss market related to the extension of egnos coverage in south-eastern and eastern europe. the improvement of the current egnos coverage area is extended, as of june 2016, to the eastern parts of romania (in addition to the mediterranean area and finland). i encourage the commission to present a proposal for a european space industrial policy and a comprehensive and ambitious strategy to ensure europe's leadership in space technologies and services on world markets in the short, medium and long term. and one of the main elements of the strategy should be the market uptake of space data, services and applications in order to maximise the socio-economic benefits of eu space programmes.
in writing. ‒ european space programmes promote the development of space technologies and can support public and private sector jobs by supplying both global and european markets. market uptake of space data and services could also lead to important socio-economic benefits.
in writing. ‒ the eu is one of the world`s leading actors in the space industry and the eu`s space activities are very important for our union`s economic growth, scientific progress, social cohesion, industrial competitiveness and creation of jobs and enterprises. this report asks the commission to present the eu`s short, medium and long term strategy on space policy and highlights the need to focus on market uptake of space data and services to maximise socio-economic benefits from the eu’s space programmes. europe`s space policy is a fundamental contributor to the implementation of the union`s policies on transport, environment, energy and others. furthermore, the report asks for more support and involvement from regional and local authorities and the need to raise awareness of the advantages of europe`s space programmes for the public and private sector. i fully support this report as i can see the need for a framework that fully benefits eu citizens.
madam president, venezuela is one of the countries with the largest oil reserves in the world and, at this moment, is in financial collapse. it's true, the price of oil has fallen and suddenly venezuela has entered a deep financial crisis from which i don't know when it will come out and how it will come out. inflation is 400%, the population has nothing to eat, prices are doubling every day. people are going out in the streets and shouting, "we want food!" what do state authorities do instead? protesters are being "bombed" with tear gas grenades and beaten and chased to keep them off the streets. that's not the answer to hunger. the answer is a policy that leads to a decent life and to food, which is the basis for living. this situation is the result of the failed policies of many, many years, of the last seventeen years, of the socialist governments. no eu aid should go to venezuela, because we don't know how it will be used: if it's used for people, fine, if it's used by politicians, no.
in writing. ‒ the venezuelan executive fully controls the country's judiciary and the national electoral council, in clear violation of the principle of independence and separation of powers that characterises democratic states governed by the rule of law. the venezuelan government has a clear responsibility to respect the rule of law as a non-permanent member of the un security council since 16 october 2014. i believe that this resolution clearly highlights the problems in venezuela, in particular the serious deterioration in democracy and human rights, and calls on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers, which are characteristic of democracy. i am in favour of the resolution because it calls on the venezuelan authorities to guarantee the security and free exercise of rights of all citizens. i consider this resolution to be beneficial, as it urges the venezuelan government to regularize the work and school schedules, in order to bring the country back to a state of normality and respect for social and labour rights and the universal right to education.
in writing. ‒ six months after the parliamentary elections were won by the opposition coalition mud (mesa de unidad democrática), the political, social and economic situation in the country is worsening vastly. both, legislative and executive are legitimate elected powers in venezuela. i support the call on both parties to restrain from violence and to launch a national dialogue process based on institutional cooperation and mutual trust for the benefit of the venezuelan citizens. i support the call on the eeas and on the ec to allow the use of the current external action financial instruments to be able to accompany this process of dialogue if required by national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the initiatives of the government and local authorities in venezuela, which are making efforts to remedy the current conflict-ridden socioeconomic situation by initiating a dialogue towards democracy, respect for social and labour rights, as well as the universal right to education and the constitutional right to peaceful demonstrations and to find concrete solutions against violence.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that expresses strong concerns about the deteriorating situation regarding democracy and human rights. the motion for a resolution also calls on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers.
in writing. ‒ the grave state of democracy, human rights and socio-economic conditions in venezuela has caused a political and humanitarian emergency to unfold. to solve the crisis, this joint motion for a resolution calls on the venezuelan government to respect the constitution, rule of law, and engage in dialogue with the opposition and civil society. this also includes allowing the entry of humanitarian aid into the country and securing the right to freedom of expression, of which releasing political prisoners is an important first step. i endorse this resolution because it is important that the eu demands that the venezuelan government take on political responsibility and fulfil its obligations towards the people of venezuela and international treaties.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors present major risks to human and animal health. recent findings confirm that chemicals have particularly severe effects on thyroid and brain functions, metabolism, and homeostasis. under the legislation in force, the commission is required to adopt delegated acts establishing the scientific criteria for the determination of the properties of endocrine disrupting substances. the commission has unfortunately not issued these delegated acts within the deadline, despite having a clear, precise and unconditional obligation to fulfil its task, as set out in the judgment of the general court of december 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it inadmissible that an institution which has the role of guardian of the treaties should paradoxically fail to fulfil its obligations under the current regulations and i ask the commission to adopt immediately scientific risk-based criteria for the determination of the properties of endocrine disrupting substances.
in writing. ‒ so-called endocrine disruptors are chemicals capable of interfering with the hormones of animal species, including humans, and are believed to be the cause of many serious diseases (for instance hormone-dependent cancers, infertility, obesity, diabetes, neurobehavioral disorders, etc.). they are found in a multitude of consumer items, cosmetics, pesticides and plastics (such as bisphenol a - bpa). the biocides regulation and the plant protection products regulation provide for special treatment of pesticides and biocidal products. under those regulations substances recognised as endocrine disruptors would not be allowed on the eu market. as a result of this provision the commission was obliged to find a way to distinguish endocrine disruptors from other chemicals by laying down scientific criteria to identify them. i strongly condemn continuous and incomprehensible delays in defining clear rules on chemicals which are believed to cause many serious diseases. i support the call on the commission to comply with the general court ruling by submitting strict criteria for endocrine disruptors based on science and not on socio-economic considerations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which ensures a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health by imposing strict control and prohibition of substances with endocrine-disrupting properties. the commission must fulfil its obligations and determine, on the basis of scientific criteria, the properties affecting the endocrine system.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on the commission to immediately adopt hazard-based criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s failure to fulfil its legal obligations on this serious matter of public health is very regrettable. the delay in adopting scientific criteria for endocrine disrupters increases the risk to public health and prevents proper regulation of potentially harmful chemicals. time is running out for the commission to fulfil its own commitment to this parliament and the public to publish the criteria before the summer.
in writing. ‒ so-called endocrine disruptors are chemicals capable of interfering with the hormones of animal species and are thought to be the cause of several serious diseases. they're found in a multitude of consumer goods, cosmetics, pesticides and plastics. in this context, the commission was obliged to find a way to distinguish endocrine disruptors from other chemicals by establishing scientific criteria for their identification. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to fulfil its obligations under previous decisions. it is unacceptable that an institution like the commission, which should be a guardian of the treaties, does not make sufficient efforts in this area. i condemn the continuing delays in defining clear rules on chemicals and call on the commission to come forward as soon as possible with strict criteria on endocrine disruptors.
in writing. ‒ the placing on the market of genetically modified agricultural products has always been controversial because of the potential risks to human and animal health. i would point out, however, that all agricultural products have undergone long-term improvement processes to increase their resistance and productivity. applications for the placing on the market of food products and food ingredients containing genetically modified maize are intended for uses other than human and animal consumption, excluding cultivation. in this respect, i believe that we should not oppose the commission's implementing document, as the authorisation decisions were adopted in compliance with the current legislation. i spoke against this resolution because i am convinced that any rejection of authorisation procedures without risk assessments by efsa creates major obstacles to the progress of research and innovation in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2009, and updated in 2013, syngenta france requested authorisation for placing certain types of genetically modified maize on the market. efsa issued a favourable opinion on 7 december 2015, stating that the genetically modified maize in question was as safe and as nutritious as its conventional counterpart and that no safety concerns were identified for any of the sub-combinations. the commission then prepared a draft implementing decision authorising the products containing, consisting of, or produced from the above-mentioned genetically modified maizes. however, the international agency for research for cancer – the specialised cancer agency of the who – classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans on 20 march 2015. moreover, the objectors consider that the current gmo legal framework is unsatisfactory. herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised, because they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account. i therefore support the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to ban the authorisation of genetically modified maize following empirical studies on the impact on human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has authorised the placement on the market of genetically modified maize. this type of corn has been genetically modified to be resistant to glyphosate. a scientific study site claims that glyphosate, the chemical existing in a wide range of products based on genetically modified maize of monsanto, could be carcinogenic. international agency for research on cancer has classified glyphosate as the possible human carcinogen substance. despite this, the european food safety claims that glyphosate is not carcinogenic and has no toxic effects on fertility, allowing other products based on glyphosate to enter the market. in order to protect the health of european citizens, it is extremely important to analyze the impact of gmo products on the environment and to the people.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that authorizes the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically-modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013 a notification concerning the placing on the market of a genetically-modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) was submitted by suntory holdings limited, osaka, japan, to the competent authority of the netherlands. following a positive assessment by the competent authorities of the netherlands, some member states raised and one (cyprus) maintained objections to the placing on the market of the product. efsa issued two scientific opinions in which it concluded that there was no scientific reason to consider that the intended use would cause any adverse effect on human health or the environment. based on this assessment, the commission prepared a draft implementing decision according to which carnation shd-27531-4 should be authorised. the objectors consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive. the reasons include the fact that carnation petals can be eaten as garnish, and efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the intentional consumption of gm carnations by humans. additionally, propagation would be possible. the carnation is resistant to sulfonylurea herbicides. herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised, because they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to ban the placing on the market of a genetically modified garden carnation, following empirical studies on its impact on human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has authorised the placement on the market of a genetically-modified flower – the carnation. the european food safety authority is aware that a part of the population consumes carnation petals as condiment. yet the european food safety authority (efsa) failed to examine the possible consequences on human health. carnation has been genetically modified in order to be resistant to sulfonylurea, medicine used to treat diabetes. creating a market of sulfonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the use of this medicine to treat diabetes. according to the findings of the annual congress of the european association for the study of diabetes (easd), using sulfonylurea as a medicine to treat diabetes, is closely linked with increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
question no 6 by mr pimenta (h-0026/97) subject: free movement of persons within the european union
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the material they have put on the table today. the european union is defined mainly by the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. today we have a more than acceptable free movement of persons within the union, even though not all member states are in the schengen area. unfortunately, the administrative obstacles to the cross-border use and acceptance of official documents have a direct impact on the free movement of citizens. it is necessary to further identify practical tools that make life easier for citizens across national borders. 'unity in diversity' must also be found in the bureaucratic sphere, thus overcoming the language barriers created in the absence of standard forms. simplifying these procedures responds to the needs and wishes of citizens, while at the same time representing an important step towards deepening and strengthening european integration. a gradual approach is needed in starting this process, starting with testing a narrower area such as civil status documents, and then it is mandatory to move towards an extension of the scope. however, we must be extremely careful not to let the mirage of simplification override the principles of security and legal certainty which have been the basis for the introduction of legalisation formalities. i therefore remain firmly convinced that the proposal provides a new impetus to the free movement of persons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the context of an increasing number of europeans working, studying or living in member states other than their own, the european commission's proposal to simplify the process of accepting public documents is of major importance both for citizens and for the functioning of the european single market. whether it's tourists who need health insurance, employees who need to prove they've paid some taxes, or students who interact with university administration, bureaucratic requirements act as a real brake on european freedoms. the commission's proposal is therefore a necessary but not sufficient step for the current mobility needs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in addition to relieving european citizens of the stress of unnecessary red tape, the costs they are forced to bear will be substantially reduced. i also welcome this initiative because of its contribution to the idea of trust between the authorities of the member states and towards european citizens, who are increasingly mobile.
mr president, (microphone closed) must facilitate the free movement of citizens, and an important step is this legislative act, which provides for exemption from the legalisation and apostille requirement for some commonly requested documents, relating, for example, to residence, nationality and criminal records. another important aspect is the creation of multilingual standard forms for a large number of documents. but unfortunately, i have to criticize a few things. firstly, i do not understand why the regulation does not include diplomas and certificates of training, certificates relating to disability or other documents relevant to businesses. it is as if students, professionals, entrepreneurs or people with disabilities do not have the right to mobility. i also do not understand why it is taking so long to implement this legislation, why it is taking almost three years to implement the computerised verification programme or why there are additional costs for issuing multilingual documents. i've lived abroad for several years and i've faced these problems firsthand. so, on behalf of the almost four million romanians living in other european countries, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this act and ask the commission and the council to quickly introduce the other documents as well.
mr president, trust in the european judiciary is essential for the proper functioning of the european union. that's why i reject the cost issue. for a fair and efficient justice system, it's not the cost that's the problem, it's the way it works. the proposed reform ensures greater efficiency and improves the functioning of the european legal system. sometimes the changes raise fears, but it should be noted that this regulation is the result of institutional dialogue and can increase the efficiency of european justice. it is certainly not only the rules of procedure of the general court that need to be amended, but also its internal organisation. i therefore agree with the rapporteur and the commission's proposal to allocate a greater number of cases, where their importance justifies it, in order to ensure the consistency and quality of the case-law. thematic synergies can be a solution in this respect and i believe that the possibility of adopting rules and practices for allocating cases should also be considered. last but not least, the gender parity demanded by the european parliament must be respected, because, after all, joint decisions also contribute to the proper functioning of the european judiciary.
madam president, the right to life comes first. people died in paris, in brussels, in istanbul. what are we waiting for? we have to ensure their safety and we have to ensure their right to life. today we have information systems and databases that provide or provide police and border officers with relevant data, mostly on people crossing external borders. i am referring to the schengen information system, europol, interpol and other data systems. but the exchange of information between member states that we're talking about today and the transmission of information by member states in these databases are closely linked. if the member states do not transmit all the relevant information in these schengen databases, europol, interpol, the others, then the exchange of information is no longer effective, border management cannot be done and people will continue to die. we won't be able to provide security. what's the point of having these tools and not using them?
madam president, commissioner, minister, security must be a priority for everyone: for the council, for the commission, for us, for the european parliament, for all the specialised institutions. the commissioner was talking about our unity in the european union, and it is true. the tragedies of the last two years have proved that there was not enough unity and have shown the weakness of data collection, but above all the exploitation of information. but from today's statements by the council and the commission, i did not understand exactly what additional security measures were taken. have the council and the commission found appropriate measures to increase safety in the european union? there is of course also national responsibility, but the council is the institution that is made up of the ministers of the member states and decisions must be taken there and transposed. we are asked by citizens at home, what is happening to the european union? what measures are being taken for their safety? we await those answers, commissioner and minister.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the decision of the grand national assembly of turkey to waive the parliamentary immunity of 138 members, (2016/2761 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in turkey. i would also like to take the opportunity to thank the european parliament for its strong support for our comprehensive agenda with turkey as stated in the resolution of the 2015 report on turkey which was adopted only in april. the european union has demonstrated its willingness to re-energise relations with turkey across the board, based on our firm principles and criteria. we have delivered on our side in terms of political engagement, high-level dialogues on energy, foreign policy, security and counter-terrorism, economy and trade. in terms of financial support – i am talking about the facility for refugees we have made necessary for the agreed support – so far more than eur 250 million has been committed, more than eur 100 million already paid: this gives refugees a perspective and alleviates migratory pressures. and we have worked towards visa-free travel on the basis of the well-known benchmarks, benchmarks which are well known since 2013 and have not changed. this re-energised engagement with turkey is not a one-way street, it is based on joint interests and pursued through an open, constructive dialogue, and it must be viewed in a wider, regional context, including the very serious developments in syria. turkey remains a key partner in managing migration. turkey indeed has done much to help refugees in need of protection, shelter, food and healthcare. but at the same time this is not a blank cheque, there are number of serious developments affecting the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in turkey as well as the situation in the southeast of turkey. we have been very clear about these issues in the commission’s 2015 report on turkey, as have you, here, in the european parliament’s resolution. the commission is seriously concerned about the turkish parliament’s recent decision to permit the lifting of parliamentary immunity from prosecution for a large number of members of parliament. high representative and vice-president mogherini and i jointly made clear in our statement of 20 may that immunity must apply to all, on a non-discriminatory basis. this is the commission’s clear and consistent position. any decisions on lifting immunity must be based on the merits of each specific case, according to transparent criteria not subject to political considerations. the commission has repeatedly stressed that overall the framework for parliamentary immunity should include specific and objective criteria for taking decisions on lifting immunity as is the case in probably all our parliaments within the european union. we have also systematically highlighted the problematic interpretation of the legal framework, and the constitution in particular, which continue to pose a risk to the freedom of expression of members of parliament in turkey. let me also underline that any alleged wrong-doing or alleged crimes committed by mps must be subject to due process. the right to a fair trial is fundamental to the rule of law and key to ensuring public confidence in the judiciary. it is the responsibility of the relevant political and judicial authorities in turkey to ensure that this right is respected, not just for the people concerned but for the broader stability of the country. the rule of law is the very basis for turkey’s political and economic progress. the commission will therefore continue to follow this particular issue very closely. we will also raise these important matters in our upcoming high-level contacts with turkey and we renew our call on the turkish government to generally re-engage in reforms in line with european standards. in support of these reform efforts the commission is currently working at an accelerated pace on preparatory documents for chapters 23 and 24, of course without prejudice to the positions of member states in accordance with the existing rules. we believe that defining benchmarks in the key areas of the judiciary and fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security is the best lever to convince turkey to carry on the work and realise its stated goal to move closer to the european union. therefore i am grateful for the strong support of this house in this endeavour.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, lifting the immunity of a member is not something exceptional for a parliament. every legislative chamber does this, and we do it here in strasbourg. but lifting the immunity of 138 members of parliament is something out of the ordinary and it is all the more exceptional because most of these members of parliament come from a single party, the kurds, who are opposed to ankara. there is a doubt, not only because of the collective nature of this decision, but also because of the impact on the representation of turkish citizens. we have important issues on the table in our partnership with turkey - migrants, visas, negotiating chapters - but we believe that only a turkey that respects the rule of law can keep its word and be respected on our side.
mr president parliamentary immunity in general is a subject of much debate, and in my country, for example, members of parliament often hide behind the immunity and try to avoid being held accountable for matters that have nothing to do with the free expression of their political opinions. however, in the case of the turkish decision, this is not all that is at issue, but it also leads to the obvious dismantling of a party and, in practice, to the elimination of a democratic political instrument of a national minority. if the turkish leadership outlaws the political self-organisation of the kurdish minority, it is such a slap in the face to everything we understand by the rule of law and respect for human rights that i think the consequences are unimaginable. with this decision, turkey itself is abandoning the path that could lead to the european union. we must make it clear that turkey can only be a strategic partner of the eu if it is a partner of the kurdish minority and respects its rights. there is no other way. europe cannot pretend that everything is fine with this decision.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council declaration on the reform of trade defence instruments (tdi), (2016/2763 ((rsp)).
mr president, i will not sing the song of protectionism today, but we have to agree today. we have all to agree today in this room that our trade defence rules are obsolete and they have systematically failed to protect the union industries effectively against overproduction in third countries and unfair practices. nevertheless, the council keeps failing to find a compromise and a reform. moreover, today we are also facing a long delay and a real urgency to address the need of the partial expiry of china in the wto, and this should be done before 11 december. therefore i would welcome the new initiative of the european commission for relaunching the reform of european basic anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations that includes the modernisation of trade defence rules. as many colleagues said today, we have to urge the eu member states and the dutch presidency for an immediate resolution or an immediate response. before blaming china, we have to name the council and i hope to name but not to shame. it is already too late.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the reform of trade defence instruments is not a joke. it's a necessity. the council is the european institution that often blocks initiatives that are extremely important for economic development and, indeed, blocks the reform of trade defence instruments. for two years i have been asking the commission, both in writing and by direct challenge, to find anti-dumping measures. how do we defend europe, which is already deindustrialised, by allowing subsidised products from third countries into their countries? we are facing ttip negotiations with the united states, where we also have problems with the american buy law. they're not telling us anything. what will we do if this deal is concluded without a buy europe law? it's a few months away from china's world trade organization agreement expiring and it will be market economy status. do we have the trade defence instruments ready? you're working at different speeds, mr. minister. the commission and the council are sitting idly by and are not finding or looking for trade defence instruments. we are waiting for answers, but above all, concrete measures, gentlemen!
mr president, here in europe we greatly admire the way in which traditions are cherished and are part of the living culture in japan. having said that, we are also aware that no culture is born or living in a vacuum; they transform and adapt to changing circumstances. if we look at the evolution of japanese culture through the millennia, there is no better example in this regard than the period of meiji restoration. while it is true that a number of coastal communities in japan have indeed practised inshore whale hunting for centuries, it is stretching it a bit too far to invoke traditional culture today to defend sending out ships across the globe and to the antarctic to hunt whales. fortunately, the times of post-war world food shortages, when whale meat was the biggest source of meat in japan, have long past, and most people can afford other types of meat. consumption has been falling for years, and most japanese do not even eat whale meat at all. therefore, just as eating habits have changed, so should the practice of whale hunting. nor can the killing of hundreds of whales each year be credibly justified by scientific research purposes. considering the threat to some endangered species, the high economic cost of whaling for japan’s taxpayers, and the damage that global condemnation brings to its international image, i believe that it would be in japan’s best interest to call its whaling fleet home.
in writing. – our planet’s ecosystems are under increasing pressure. clean air, fresh water supplies and food security all depend on our ability to protect these ecosystems from over-exploitation. working with our international partners, through wildlife trade policy and by establishing protected areas and certification schemes, we have made some positive changes. and we have witnessed – as the result of international cooperation – the conservation and recovery of some degraded environments and declining species. 3 years ago we closed a legal loophole and banned the practice of shark finning, to allow the shark population to recover and help restore the ecosystem balance. whales – like sharks – play a role in balancing the marine ecosystem. international cooperation is the only way to conserve a vast, shared resource like the marine environment. it is hugely disappointing that japan has decided to resume whaling – ostensibly for research purposes. we must persuade our international partners to adhere to the common rules, and to protect our shared resources, so that our planet may continue to provide for us and for future generations.
madam president, the european union needs a transparent, efficient and independent administration. this is what the european parliament called for in its resolution of 15 january 2013 a few years ago. today, the european union has a heavy institutional machinery. european funds are absorbed through a complicated system that is difficult for citizens to access, and entrepreneurs face stiff bureaucratic mechanisms that block their activity. the way the european institutions work must therefore be simplified to make it easier for everyone, and especially young people, to understand. the situation has to change. good administration is not an option but a legal right, guaranteed by article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. institutions need to become more aware of the practical benefits of a citizen-centred approach. the principles of transparency, efficiency and independence lead to a stronger european union and are binding on member states when their actions fall within the scope of eu law. the european union, however, has a duty to improve the efficiency of its administration before criticizing the functioning of the administrations of the member states. however, i regret to see that there are still problems in having a common european approach. some states are protected when they commit breaches of european law, while others, perceived as weaker, are sometimes criticised without objective arguments. the absence of a european dimension is also reflected in the level of representation in the european institutions. whether we're talking about national representation or gender representation. a common european identity and culture cannot be achieved in the absence of equitable representation. i therefore believe that it is the duty of the european institutions to correct such situations and to propose a transparent and effective legal framework. this is good management. finally, i would like to urge the european commission to respect the regulation and to come forward with a proposal for the document drawn up by the committee on legal affairs on a transparent, efficient and independent administration of the european union.
madam president, i would start by saying that i absolutely agree with what mrs gräßle said. he said it in very clear, normal, direct words. today we hear from the commission that the regulation on a transparent and efficient administration of the union will not actually reach us, because it is not the case, because there are very rare cases where such infringements are. the commission is not in a hurry, although we asked for it as parliament three years ago! it seems unacceptable to me and it really is a mockery. the lisbon treaty provides that the european institutions and agencies must be supported by an efficient and independent administration. what we give people in return is often administrative inconsistency, bureaucracy and lack of clarity. we're losing sight of the public interest. there are procedures, and too many procedures, as well as not enough procedures, lead to poor administration. let's not confuse bureaucracy with rules! we, as meps, are also enclosed and buried by bureaucracy and cannot do our job for the people.
madam president, in a union of values, where citizens and businesses pay taxes and fees for the functioning of public administration, it is perfectly normal and natural to want an efficient administration, able to respond at all times to their needs and concerns. it is therefore important that there is and is ensured a clear definition at union level of the rules and procedures that are correlated with their rights and obligations. a high degree of transparency, efficiency and rapid problem-solving by the institutions must be ensured. at the same time, it is necessary to take into account that, although a number of administrative-sectoral procedures have developed over time, they are not able to ensure the coherence of the system, thus making it difficult for citizens to understand their rights under european law. it is therefore clear that an excessive set of rules and procedures, or the lack thereof in certain sectors, can lead to poor administration. it is therefore arithmetically obvious that there is a need for a common set of administrative procedures to cover the gaps in this system, which will certainly lead to greater legal certainty. in addressing this issue, we must necessarily start from the case law of the court of justice of the european union, so that the principles of the rule of law are preserved and citizens have the guarantee that they are the beneficiaries of an administration that is always close to them and their rights are always respected.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it has become clear that we do not necessarily agree on every single issue, even though we agree on a lot of things. i want to congratulate the european parliament for raising the important topic of an open, efficient and independent european union administration with the commission today. for everybody in this room, this is a key topic as we are all here to serve eu citizens. what we do for the eu in our legislative and policy work can be found in official documents, but for the individual citizens it is especially in the conduct of the eu institution and bodies that we are judged. we therefore must ensure that we provide them with high quality administration that acts through efficient, transparent and coherent procedures. this is essential for gaining their trust and confidence in the eu. the eu's institutions and bodies, which have been created on the basis of common principles and values, have through the years developed rules and practices that grant citizens rights to impose obligations on the administration. the commission, and i trust also the other institutions and bodies, regularly reviews its practices to make sure that they continue to be fit for purpose and are adapted to developments. the european ombudsman also contributes to ensuring quality in the work of the institutions and bodies and can point out where concrete improvements could be made. while we see that the parliament wants a ‘once-size-fits-all’ rule for eu administration, the commission rather thinks that we best serve citizens if we have administrative rules that are tailor-made and can maximise the effect in each field of concern. we will continue to monitor our rules and practices in this spirit and, as always, are open to examine input by citizens and stakeholders that point our attention to specific needs for improvements. thank you very much for this discussion and your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, again, this is one of the issues on which i am working very closely with my colleagues in the commission. the commission and high representative/vice-president mogherini and the european investment bank are currently examining how to have more efficient eu economic diplomacy. economic diplomacy is about using all levers that are at our disposal to promote our economic interests abroad. this means removing barriers and creating incentives to trade and investment by opening global markets, fostering cooperation on economic governance, regulatory convergence or a level playing field, concretely supporting the internationalisation of eu businesses and improving the coherence and effectiveness of the external action of the eu in the economic field. economic diplomacy is therefore at the forefront of the jobs, growth and investment agenda, one of the top priorities of the juncker commission. in a world where most of the future economic growth is expected to happen outside the eu, we must make optimal use of all the levers at our disposal to promote eu prosperity in a global context. to this end, we need to develop a more cohesive and coherent approach that targets strong economic and political outcomes using our trade, investment, industry, innovation, foreign and development policies. eu economic diplomacy also has a financial dimension and access to finance for business internationalisation should be boosted, notably through eib actions. the commission services, the eeas and the european investment bank are already active in working towards removing barriers and creating incentives to trade and investment by opening global markets, fostering cooperation on economic governance, regulatory convergence or a level playing field with key economic partners. they are also supporting the internationalisation of eu businesses. we do this inter alia by negotiating and implementing trade and investment and sectoral agreements, by cooperating on sectoral policies across the world through diplomatic démarches by our eu delegations or at political level when we have summits or high-level meetings with partner countries, and by deploying and financing initiatives to support the internationalisation of businesses and smes. this can be done, for instance, via market access, partnership, support to eu chambers of commerce abroad, business missions and regulatory cooperation and projects. but we can still do more to further improve the coherence and effectiveness of the eu’s external action in the economic field. first, we need to have a clear view of the eu’s economic interests and strategic objectives with key partners. and then we need to use the policy tools and instruments at our disposal to pursue these objectives and ensure coherence and synergies. proper consultation, coordination and unity must be ensured with parliament, member states and industry, as a united eu is stronger and has more leverage. an inter-service group on economic diplomacy has been set up with representatives of the commission services, the eu external action service and the eib to examine and make proposals on the above-mentioned agenda. this group has already helped strengthen our internal coordination. one of the next steps will be to equip eu delegations with better guidance and instructions on how to support eu economic interests abroad. we are also reflecting on how to improve coordination with member states and eu industry to work the together on the same objectives and divide work in an optimal way, including in respect of concrete support for the internationalisation of eu companies, where we need to avoid duplication. for this, we will discuss with member states and industry representatives both in brussels and in european capitals, but also in third countries where economic diplomacy is being carried out on the ground. the role of eu delegations is therefore key. the european parliament’s role in eu economic diplomacy is also key, as you have relations with parliaments of most countries in the world and can pass important messages when visiting them. we need to pursue the same objectives and work together to defend eu economic interests abroad. so, honourable members, i will stop here and i am very interested in hearing your views on what more we could do and maybe learn from best practices you have seen during your visits and activities abroad.
madam president, commissioner, economic diplomacy is not a new concept and is not being discussed for the first time in the european parliament. i remember mr tajani's work as commissioner and vice-president of the commission, when he already initiated action in 2013 on an interesting programme for economic diplomacy so that the european union could become a stronger player in the world. in its definition, economic diplomacy is actually an external political function that ensures that actions are aligned with very clear objectives to promote the economic well-being of european citizens. economic diplomacy aims to use foreign policy instruments to support the economic interests of entrepreneurs in the member states. to achieve its objectives, the european union should promote global competitiveness and take the lead in strategic sectors such as industry, innovation and energy. in my meetings with several commissioners, including mr juncker, i have often raised issues relating to concrete measures, the reindustrialisation of the european union, the internationalisation of business and, in particular, support for smes to expand their activities in third countries. you have also specified it, commissioner, but you have not said how. because without having concrete budgets for the internationalisation of smes, we will not be able to do it with words. my question is very explicit and i hope to receive an answer as clear. what diplomatic instruments in the economic and trade sectors do you want to develop now that the european union is in extremely important negotiations with large markets: the united states, canada, china, japan? commissioner, as vice-chair of the sme intergroup, i had the opportunity to meet with many sme associations, i was myself a sme-ist and sme minister. what economic diplomacy tools do you intend to develop to support smes in expanding their business and marketing in third markets? what can be done to have innovative, competitive, robust smes in the global market? you have a plan? a diplomatic strategy would generate revenue and promote european values by creating a level playing field. economic diplomacy is useful and would reinvigorate europe on the world stage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who support this initiative. it may sound strange, but i'm glad there's another commissioner here, because i think each commissioner speaks his own language and doesn't connect with the projects. commissioner, you can argue to mr juncker that we need reindustrialisation, that we need a strategy and that all the projects that the commission generates must have a link between them. the strategic investment fund must be connected for railway equipment, for investments, for the railway industry. we can't work separately and not connect these programs. yesterday we talked late about economic diplomacy. that's what this is about! make an industrialization strategy through economic diplomacy so that european industry can withstand the unfair competition created by state-subsidized industries on a global scale!
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to your comments, your exchanges and, of course, your criticism. i would like to thank you for your contribution to this important debate at a very crucial time. as the commission, we follow closely the developments in the rail supply industries in order to be in a position to provide the appropriate policy and, of course, to ensure that the eu rail supply industry remains a leader in world markets. thank you for your attention, thank you for your remarks and your contributions in this very difficult position about the rail industry in europe as a leader worldwide.
in writing. the european railway equipment sector is a driver of industrial growth and innovation in europe, while also contributing to job creation. rail transport is the lowest carbon dioxide emitting mode of transport. the creation of modern railways and of equipment and accessories can provide europe with a technological and innovation lead. investment in research and innovation is indispensable to preserve the international competitiveness of the european railway sector. both national governments and the eu need to support and encourage innovation, according to the eu 2020 strategy. without adequate funding, the objective of an integrated rail network cannot be achieved. particular attention should be paid to the effective implementation of the european fund for strategic investments as a tool for raising private capital for the railway sector. in view of the reduction of public expenditure in this area, substantial private investment in railway projects is required for a long-term european development strategy. in addition, it is necessary to modernise existing railway equipment and for member states to replace worn-out equipment with modern and long-lasting products. there is therefore a need for an effective railway infrastructure capable of serving the general interest of european society in the long term.
member of the commission. – madam president, it was only in november that we held a similar debate here on the political situation in cambodia. now again, as described in detail by previous speakers, actions against members of the opposition and civil society are cause for serious concern. specifically, we have seen what appears to be a continuing campaign of harassment against opposition leader kem sokha, regardless of his parliamentary immunity. this has also led to the arrest of four officials and one former official of the human rights ngo adhoc. these actions are particularly worrying in the context of preparations for commune council elections in 2017 and national elections in 2018. they leave us with the perception of new restrictions on civil society. the european union has not been silent during this tense period. the visit of a delegation of the subcommittee on human rights in early april was very timely. a few weeks later, at the beginning of may, the eu-cambodia joint committee meeting was held in phnom penh. this is a biannual 3-day event which includes meetings on cooperation, on trade and on governance and human rights. in the margins, the eu also held bilateral meetings with the minister of the interior, with the minister of foreign affairs, with civil society organisations and, of course, with the opposition. throughout all these meetings, the eu very clearly spelled out its serious concerns about the arrests and about the decreasing space for civil society and for the opposition. it explicitly called for the release of the ngo officials. this call was reflected in the joint statement and in the press afterwards. following the joint committee, the eu ambassador continued to approach the government in phnom penh, together with like-minded and eu ambassadors. in brussels the cambodian ambassador was called in. last week the eu heads of missions in phnom penh issued a local statement calling on the authorities to stop the judicial harassment and urging them to resume a constructive dialogue with the opposition. they stressed that this is a condition for the legitimacy of the forthcoming elections. it is our strong view that the government of cambodia has a duty to create and sustain an environment in which all political parties can go about their work without fear of violence or harassment. an environment in which robust and frank policy discussion is encouraged, and in which the law is applied impartially. also, the european union has earmarked eur 10 million to support the electoral reform, and works closely with the bi-partisan national election committee on the best ways to provide assistance for the preparation of the next elections. it is indeed important that we support an election reform process with solid guarantees for a real democratic electoral competition. the elections are still some way away: commune level in june 2017 and parliamentary in july 2018. we are monitoring and assessing the situation on a regular basis. we will consider in due course whether it would be appropriate to observe one of the upcoming elections. in any case, the eu will continue to support reform in cambodia and to encourage the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. there is peace where there is justice, rights and political pluralism. all of these are violated in cambodia. political pluralism is virtually absent. the constitution includes the principles of a multiparty democracy, but in reality political opposition is stifled. the government is pressing for the indictment of kem sokha, the interim leader of the opposition. an arrest warrant has been issued for sam rainsy - the current leader of the opposition. freedom of speech is being violated. a 2010 law criminalizes libel or criticism in writing against senior public officials. last month's anti-government protests ended with the arrest of human rights activists from adhoc. corruption, land grabbing by influential politicians, illegal resource extraction, nepotism, vote-rigging and vote-buying are commonplace. environmentalist chut wutty was killed in 2012 while investigating illegal logging. demand the release of all political prisoners and the adoption of clear criteria for the 2017 elections to ensure fair and free elections.
mr president, i believe we have a strong interest in stepping up political and economic security cooperation, as well as sustainable development and peace cooperation, with the central asian region. however, political and economic relations with tajikistan are deeply linked with sharing values on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. therefore, i strongly support the call for the release of everyone imprisoned on politically motivated charges. we cannot turn a blind eye to the increase in the number of detentions and arrests of people allegedly on criminal charges, when in fact they are political prisoners – human rights lawyers, for example, or political opposition members and their relatives – or to restrictions on media freedom, internet and mobile communications and to limitations of religious expression. these politicians, activists and human rights defenders must be allowed to work freely without fear of arrest or persecution. commissioner, the eu has to intervene on this matter by all available means.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, vietnam is now an essential partner of europe and that is precisely why we insist that it respects human rights. freedom of association and of the press, as well as freedom of religion, cannot be compromised. the persecution of catholics in vietnam is a matter of great concern. they are still considered enemies of the state. the bill on beliefs and religions currently being negotiated in parliament is a threat to catholics, but also to all other religions in vietnam. this law, by not recognizing the legal existence of a religious organization, is in direct contradiction with the freedom of belief enshrined in the vietnamese constitution. the authorities are therefore not respecting the basic law and i ask mr mélenchon, who is a friend of all communists, to call vietnam and tell them that they are not respecting the constitution. it is very serious, mr melenchon, and i know you agree with me. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i am glad to hear mr mélenchon on respect for religious freedom and i would simply like to say to him that we have also spoken very often about the cases he has cited, but as he spends too much time on the streets of paris and elsewhere, he has not had the opportunity to follow our debates. so, mr. melenchon, please come here more often because it's your job!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the promotion and respect of human rights does not constitute a threat to the stability of a country, but on the contrary, contributes to its strengthening. in vietnam, fundamental rights, including freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, freedom of association, are restricted. press and religious freedom are no better off. human rights activists and dissident bloggers face constant harassment and intimidation, including physical assault and imprisonment. i strongly condemn the ongoing human rights violations, including political intimidation, harassment, arbitrary arrests and unfair trials of political activists, dissident journalists and human rights defenders. it is essential that the vietnamese authorities combat discrimination against women by introducing legislation against trafficking in human beings and by taking effective measures to combat the phenomenon of domestic violence. the european union delegation should use all instruments to assist the vietnamese authorities in making progress in the field of human rights.
mr president, vietnam’s proposed 5th draft law on belief and religion is directly in violation of international human rights law, to which vietnam is a party. if passed, the provisions of the draft law would act as a powerful instrument of control, placing overly-broad limitations on the practice of religion or belief within the country. the eu must urge vietnam to come up with a new draft that conforms to vietnam’s obligations under article 18 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, one that ensures that the practice of any religion or belief in vietnam is not conditional upon a process of state recognition, registration and approval. such a process would result in discrimination or other violations of the human rights of ethnic and religious minorities, and in favouritism towards recognised, state-controlled or state-friendly groups. above all, the fundamental freedom of religion or belief needs to become a reality in vietnam.
madam president, authentication and translation of original documents are problems faced by many european citizens, including many romanian citizens living and working in other eu countries. once this regulation enters into force, the legalisation and translation of documents of major importance to citizens, such as birth, death, marriage, divorce, adoption or custody of a child, criminal records or nationality will be translated and certified very quickly. second, it should be noted that this regulation does not apply to the content of documents but only to the efficiency and speed of certification and translation. three, i support the proposal to introduce multi-lingual forms for these documents, including, of course, in romanian.
in writing. ‒ mobility of union citizens is a reality: some 12 million of them study, work or live in a member state other than the one of which they are nationals. today, when citizens and businesses in the european union exercise their right to free movement or the freedoms of the internal market, they face administrative difficulties. the report refers to civil status documents and several other documents frequently requested by citizens, concerning, for example, residence, nationality and criminal records. i voted to remove these obstacles to citizens' mobility within the european union.
in writing. ‒ more than 12 million european citizens study, work or live in a member state other than the one in which they were born, and every day more than five million europeans cross the union's internal borders to work in another member state. for this reason, hundreds of thousands of official documents enter the legalization or certification cycle each year in order to be recognised in member states other than the one in which they were issued. as such, i support the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the additional cross-border formalities for the recognition of these documents as a measure to facilitate the free movement of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that this regulation is a step in the right direction. if adopted, substantial progress will be made for citizens and it will help to build bridges and trust in order to strengthen the regulation in the future and to reduce more bureaucratic burdens for european citizens. however, we could have gone further by, for example, enlarging the scope and abolishing more formalities, but it seems that member states are currently too attached to their national procedures and still mistrust each other. i therefore welcome the fact that the regulation contains revision clauses with a view to extending the scope of the administrative simplifications in the future. i support a call for the commission to present a proposal on the acceptance of the content of public documents, including registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i strongly salute this report for promoting free movement and simplifying bureaucracy within the european union. this regulation should have been taken further and more formalities should have been excluded in order to reduce the burdens that fall on european citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted this recommendation for a second reading that aims to promote free movement of people and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents within the european union. this legislation covers all civil status documents and other documents concerning residence, nationality and criminal records.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in my vote today because it supports the final form of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the legislative act promoting the free movement of eu citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain official documents between member states. the presentation of official documents requested by one member state and issued by another is a bureaucratic problem for european citizens wishing to move to the territory of another member state and entails very high costs for the latter. in this respect, simplifying procedures, eliminating the need for legalisation and apostille, as well as for certified translation, will make the procedures that european citizens have to go through much easier. also, the introduction of multilingual forms for most official documents, although these will also have to be accompanied by the required documents, will help avoid ambiguities and reduce the resolution times.
in writing. ‒ one of the principles underpinning the european union is the freedom of movement of citizens of the member states. in this respect, an important component is the simplification of the acceptance of certain documents issued by those states. unfortunately, there are currently still many obstacles to the normalisation of this important process, which creates difficulties, in particular for those who wish to study and work in another member state, but also for other public documents concerning marital status, residence, nationality and criminal records. the current proposal for a regulation provides for exemption from the legalization and apostille of those documents, traditional procedures for cross-border official documents. simplifications are also provided for in relation to legalized copies and authorised translations, in particular by creating multilingual standard forms and pre-translations, annexed to national official documents. at present, diplomas and training certificates, certificates of disability, documents relating to undertakings are not included in the regulation. however, the regulation is an important step forward and may be revised in the future in line with the evolution of conditions at eu level. i therefore consider this to be an obvious step forward and support the adoption of this document.
madam president, i have finally supported this resolution, although i do not agree with the overall political reform of the court of justice, i.e. doubling the number of judges, but this text will lead to the court of justice being transferred to the agenda that has been carried out by the civil service tribunal. i take it as a pragmatic little evil that we have at least transferred part of the next agenda to the increased number of judges from 28 to 56, and these judges will be able to carry out this extra work. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. i did not vote for the declaration on gender balance in the courts, and i personally think that such a political declaration does not belong in professional workplaces such as courts. in the czech republic, there is no gender balance in the czech courts, and yet 60% of female judges and 40% of male judges work in the czech judiciary.
madam president, i have actively contributed to and support judicial reform in romania, in the neighbouring states and in all the states of the european union and all over the world. the reform of the european court of justice, including through this transfer, will lead to an increase in efficiency, this is mandatory. and yes, justice needs good specialists, it needs funding, it needs research and it needs clear laws. when the reform process is completed, each member state will be able to appoint two judges, and the maximum number of judges of the court would be increased to fifty-six. now, i have a question: why do we need to double the number of judges? this will lead to an increase in expenditure of around eur 20 million and this is justified and effective if the number of dossiers is also doubled, for example. that's why i'm asking the commission to come up with an impact study to tell us exactly why we need to double the number of judges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction to give judgment at first instance in cases concerning the eu civil service, taking into account the need to regulate the existing legal framework. the judges will start their work on 1 october, which makes the adoption of this report all the more necessary. this regulation is the fourth stage in the reform of the court of justice. with the increase in the number of judges of the general court from 40 to 47, it became necessary to dissolve the civil service tribunal and transfer civil service litigation to the general court. i support this proposal, given that this is the solution which the co-legislators found to be the favourable one, but also that the amendments proposed by the general court were prepared in close consultation with the civil service tribunal and the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is the fourth relating to the reform of the court of justice. the third reform concerned an increase in the number of judges at the general court to 56. this increase was subject to the condition that the civil service tribunal be abolished, with civil service disputes transferred back to the general court. the present regulation is therefore a follow-up to the third regulation reforming the court of justice. in parallel with the second step on the increase in the number of judges at the general court, from 40 to 47, the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges, is to be abolished. the court of justice’s proposal merely proposes the repeal of the legal provisions relating to the civil service tribunal, along with a small number of consequential amendments and transitional provisions concerning the transfer of ongoing cases.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly in favour of reforming the court of justice. this is a follow-up to the third regulation, which decides the increase of judges at the general court since the civil service tribunal is to be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice started to reform itself on 3 december 2015 with the aim to face an increasing workload and to ensure that legal redress in the eu is guaranteed within a reasonable time. i voted this report that is the fourth regulation relating to the reform of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the adoption of the fourth regulation on the rules of procedure of the court of justice and the general court of the european union. the personal opinion was favourable, as this new regulation will contribute to a simplification of the procedural and functional mechanisms of the court of justice and the general court of the european union. this amendment is absolutely necessary in view of the increase in the number of pending cases assigned to the general court of the european union. to facilitate this transfer, the european parliament and the european commission decided to increase the number of judges of the general court to give each member state the possibility of appointing two judges from its jurisdiction. the increase in the number of judges was also necessary to ensure the consistency and quality of the case-law of the general court. i welcome the initiative to reform the court of justice and the general court, as by making the transfer of civil service litigation more efficient, the european union is strengthening its legal mechanisms.
in writing. – i supported this regulation, as it is just a follow-up to the third regulation reforming the court of justice, which concerns an increase in the number of judges at the general court to 56. under the reform here in question, the civil service tribunal will be abolished on 1 september, so as to coincide with the increase in the number of judges at the general court.
in writing. ‒ it is important that there is and is a clear definition at union level of the rules and procedures that are correlated with their rights and obligations. a high degree of transparency, efficiency and rapid problem-solving by the institutions must be ensured. at the same time, it is necessary to take into account that, although a number of sectoral administrative procedures have developed over time, they are not able to ensure the coherence of the system, thus making it difficult for citizens to understand their rights under european law. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a common set of administrative procedures to cover the gaps in this system, which will certainly lead to greater legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this resolution will enable the union to have a transparent, efficient and independent administration, for the benefit of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i believe this proposal represents an important step towards ensuring better administration and greater transparency as regards the eu institutions, as well as legal certainty and predictability as regards citizens. people are many times not fully aware of their rights in their relations with the eu bodies and the process going on at the level of the eu administration remains opaque and difficult to understand. creating a set of rules for administrative procedures would help tackle this issue and bring the eu administration closer to people. i therefore support the call on the commission to come up with a legislative proposal regulating the administrative procedures of the eu institutions, in order to provide citizens with legal certainty and guarantees when dealing with the eu bodies. a regulation on the functioning of the eu bodies and their relation with citizens is absolutely necessary and should not be postponed any longer.
in writing. ‒ i believe this proposal is a crucial step to having better administration, less bureaucracy and transparency for eu institutions. rights and regulations decided by the eu administration are very difficult for citizens to understand. the proposal works towards finding a solution to this issue.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s committee on legal affairs set up a working group on administrative law in 2015, with the aim to come up with a proposal for a regulation on eu administrative procedures. i voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for a legislative proposal regulating the administrative procedures of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ an efficient administration of the union is essential to the public interest. an excessive number of rules and procedures, as well as their absence, can lead to poor administration, which can also be generated by the existence of contradictory, inconsistent or unclear rules and procedures. the european parliament calls on the commission to adopt a regulation laying down the procedural rules governing the administrative activities of the union's administration. the objective of the regulation is to guarantee the right to good administration enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union through a transparent, efficient and independent administration. it shall not apply to the administration of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the approval of a regulation on the union’s administrative procedures, as the lack of it has often left european citizens’ procedural rights insufficiently protected in a context where growing eu competences have increased citizens’ administrative engagement with european institutions. the development of a significant number of sectorial procedures over the years has not always achieved the greatest coherence and consistence in the overall legal system, and thus the need for a comprehensive regulation seems clear. the treaty of lisbon provided grounds for the adoption of an administrative procedure regulation, and in its resolution of 15 january 2013 the european parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure. such a regulation, being promoted at present, aims at establishing a set of administrative norms the union must comply with when carrying out its administrative procedures. this regulation shall not apply to member states’ national administrations, but to the administrative activities of the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. it shall apply neither to legislative or judicial procedures, nor to procedures leading to the adoption of non-legislative acts directly based on the treaties, delegated acts or implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ this proposal pressures the commission to come up with a legislative proposal to regulate the administrative procedure of the eu institutions. i see a need to reform the union’s administrative procedure, as i do not believe that the current framework maximises time and provides sufficient legal certainty for eu citizens when dealing with eu bodies. a large number of european citizens are still not aware of their rights at eu level and do not understand the administration process when dealing with our institutions. therefore, parliament is taking this initiative very seriously and i give my full support to an important step towards more efficient administration and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the european rail supply industry employs 400 000 people and plays a key role in terms of industrial jobs and growth. we must not allow the rail supply industry to suffer from unfair competition. to secure industrial jobs and to support a sector, which is essential for a shift to sustainable mobility, the eu has to act now from a position of strength. i support this resolution, which proposes concrete measures to improve research and development activities in the sector, to simplify access to markets and finance, to support smes and to attract skilled workers to the sector. moreover, i support the call for the commission to publish a communication on a coherent eu industrial policy strategy aimed at the re-industrialisation of europe and outlining its strategy on important industrial sectors, including the rail supply industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because i found that, unfortunately, the commission does not act in a united and fair manner. we do not have a european strategy for industrialisation and the protection of industrialists, especially smes, in a global market with often unfair competition due to subsidies granted by third countries to their producers. the european railway equipment industry has a key role to play in industrial development and job creation, as well as in the transition to sustainable mobility in the european area.
in writing. ‒ this proposal has been needed for quite some time in the european rail supply industry. i support it fully, since the resolution proposes measures to simplify access to markets and finance, support r&d in the sector, and support smes in order to engage more workers in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the european railway supply industry (rsi) covers high-speed, conventional and urban passenger and freight trains. it includes the manufacture of locomotives, rolling stock, track, and electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment, as well as services for maintenance and parts. i voted for this motion for a resolution, which stresses the need to achieve the objective of establishing a single european railway area that is crucial to maintaining the global dominance of the european rsi.
in writing. ‒ the european railway equipment industry comprises the production of locomotives and rolling stock, rails, electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment, as well as maintenance and spare parts supply services. the industry accounts for 46% of the world market for rail equipment, employs 400 000 people, but, together with operators and infrastructure, it provides over 1 million direct jobs and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. investment in research and development, innovation capacity, market defragmentation and the creation of clusters are essential foundations to maintain the international competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry and to contribute to the 20% reindustrialisation target in the union. the commission should consider setting up a european-level forum bringing together established or newly established companies with innovative ideas for the railway sector, in particular in the field of digitalisation, with the aim of exchanging good practices and facilitating partnerships. as s&d coordinator for the itre commission, i draw attention to the importance of manufacturing in the single market trains, trams and other modern means of rail transport, together with all necessary auxiliary equipment. in this way we would contribute to increasing the competitiveness of industry and preserving jobs within the union.
in writing. ‒ stressing the positive impact that the rail supply industry (rsi) has on european growth and climate change, this resolution has my full support. already the railway sector is the source of 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs across the european union. for the sector to continue to generate employment, in the future we need to invest in it by supporting research and developing new innovative technologies that will increase our global competitiveness. our competitiveness in the rsi is further dependent on access to international markets. eu trade strategy should therefore focus on securing the principle of reciprocity with third countries. moreover, as called for in the resolution we should be ambitious about the prospect of creating a single european railway network that will increase efficiency, and hence our competition skills, reduce administrative costs and overall drive a shift towards a sustainable and energy-efficient europe based on a strong railway sector.
in writing. ‒ the railway sector is one of the main components of the transport system at european union level, both in terms of freight and passenger transport. at the heart of the development and efficiency of this sector is the european railway equipment industry, which ensures the production of the rolling stock and the necessary devices (locomotives, rails, electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment) for the proper functioning of the entire sector in the long term. in this respect, it can be said that the sector is of strategic importance for the european industrial renaissance, for the achievement of the commission's 20% industrialisation target. in this context, there is a need to maintain the global competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry, to adopt a renewed eu agenda, but also to invest in acquiring the necessary skills, to support smes and to improve the climate on european markets in favour of suppliers and to encourage demand for rail products. investment in rail projects, both at eu and global level, can support this process, but only if there is stable political support for the sector. i believe that the european rail industry deserves to be supported and that is why i support this resolution.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without referring to the agreement, is this text negotiated between the european union and turkey, in your view, just an example of realpolitik on the part of the european union, or is there more to it than that?
madam president, i am extremely concerned about the deteriorating security situation in the northeastern part of the democratic republic of congo (drc), by the numerous reports of massacres, the recruitment and use of children by armed groups, and widespread violence. i strongly support the call on the drc government and the un peacekeeping mission, monusco, to conduct an investigation into the failures of the congolese and monusco forces to protect civilians in the region of beni. a thorough, independent and transparent investigation should be launched urgently by the international community into the massacres in order to find out who is behind these attacks, besides the allied democratic forces. the neutralisation of all armed forces, safety for all citizens and stability in the territories of beni, lubero and butembo has to be our priority. perpetrators of human rights violence, war crimes, crimes against humanity and sexual violence must be reported, identified, prosecuted and punished in accordance with national and international criminal law.
madam president, while 9/11/2001 was the work of teams of al-qaeda operatives sent to the united states, today most acts of terrorism are the result of radicalised nationals who one day decide to kill as many people around them as possible. why and how do they get radicalised and, even more important, how can we prevent that radicalisation? however, let us not forget that radicalisation does not come out of the blue, usually it is the result of increasing pressure exerted through siren calls and propaganda instigating hate and praising mass killing as a pressure-release, using in most cases the relative anonymity of the net. some people, usually from outside our countries, are doing that and we must, apart from countering their narrative and even discrediting it, find those people and deal with them according to our laws. because letting those people get radicalised and not interfering with that and concentrating our efforts on preventing them from committing the horrible crimes they are determined to commit is not enough. sooner or later they will find a way. but if we actively engage in dismantling those sources of radicalisation both in mosques and on the net, in cooperation with the muslim communities themselves, and engage in the active countering of their narratives of hate for a long period to come, then we stand the chance to do away with this phenomenon. after all, some years ago a well-known author of espionage books, tom clancy, if i am not mistaken, described exactly such a case when a recruiter of jihadists was discredited in the eyes of his followers ended up being captured. his imaginary plot has become reality today, why not his recipe?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to tell the commissioner how glad i was, one year ago, to see a breakthrough on the iranian nuclear deal after difficult and long negotiations. the eu played a crucial role in this success, and as i said at that time, the deal has to be beneficial to all parties involved. the joint comprehensive plan of action, adopted in october, can be a significant step forward for the security, stability and development of the entire region. but it remains extremely important that it is implemented thoroughly and in good faith by all partners and all sides as soon as possible. we should not forget that the significance of this deal extends beyond its technical details: it has been celebrated by the iranian people, following its conclusion, with the hope that it will improve their living standards. it is essential that we deliver on that. only successful implementation will allow us to show the benefits of diplomacy and negotiation over the politics of obstructionism and confrontation. in spite of the partial lifting of sanctions, eu companies still face substantial difficulties in accessing the iranian market, and this is mostly due to the fact that many us financial sanctions are still in place and have an extra-territorial impact. much as we are aware of some of the remaining us and regional partners’ concerns on issues such as security, in particular, and the use of ballistic weaponry, it is important to use all our channels of cooperation with the usa in order to remove, or at least find a temporary solution to, the difficulties faced by european companies and to ensure in the long term, together with our iranian partners, the security and legal certainty of european investments in iran. finally, the commission should explore, as soon as possible, the adoption of new mechanisms and measures to lessen the dependence of european companies on us credit and insurance institutions.
blue-card question. – do you not think that the commission should address the extra-territorial impact of us sanctions with the american officials and make sure that eu companies can do business, in line with eu policies, without fear of violating us sanctions and of possible fines?
madam president, the present proposals for a council regulation on matrimonial property regimes and matrimonial property regimes are the result of institutional discussions that have been going on for too long. while we regret the deadlock in negotiations between member states, we are pleased that these proposals are returning to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation, which contains many of the changes proposed by european legislation. the regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples in the european union, and we are talking about over 16 million couples, by clearly establishing which court has jurisdiction to rule on applications in matters of matrimonial property regimes. however, these rights need to be extended to all member states to ensure equal treatment for families everywhere in europe. unfortunately, i have met many couples who are also romanian citizens, who have encountered such difficulties due to differences in legislation. this regulation will thus eliminate many confusions and legal difficulties, helping international couples and families to benefit from clear protection and, why not, additional support for mobility in the european area.
madam president, the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training needs to be reformed. a new list of priorities is needed, taking into account the challenges posed by new technologies and the high rate of unemployment among young people. the message of this report must therefore be clear: education and training are not a cost, they are an investment; an investment in the future, in european human capital, in europe's productivity and competitiveness. that is why i would like to highlight four elements for achieving this objective: increasing budget allocations for formal and non-formal education, but also for teacher training; extending the erasmus programme to include pre-university and vocational education, but also strengthening transversal skills; developing digital skills and including new technologies in educational programmes; or combating early school leaving through coherent programmes; and reducing inequalities in access to cultural capital by introducing a system of cultural vouchers for young people. we need to build an education union, and the first step is to overcome differences and to use the strengths of each member state's education system in a constructive way.
in writing. i think europe is not taking enough care of the resources it already has in its own backyard. there is an excessive and ostentatious concern for the immediate integration of refugee children into schools. of course, children are not to blame and care for children must be above all political considerations. the problem is that students in poorer member states are not encouraged to integrate into the western education system to the same extent. how much worse off are students from poorer european countries than immigrants? why is it that the introduction of crops into the european area is so desirable, since they disturb the balance that is so difficult to maintain in the eu? europe must first of all raise its own teachers and pupils, both before they enter the educational process and after they leave the school. there are many old treaties that need to be reformed and renegotiated. because of these treaties, which are not in keeping with european reality, we are all in a historic impasse in the union. i am surprised that the issue of immigrants is in all the topics discussed and voted on in plenary, while those agreements that actually led to this crisis are constantly bypassed or ignored by the european parliament.
madam president, i draw attention to an unacceptable situation in the uk where two children belonging to the barbu family, romanian citizens, have been taken from their parents by a court decision that we do not comment on. but, in violation of the convention on the rights of the child, they were given up for adoption to a same-sex family, in conditions where this would not have been possible in romania. article 20 of the convention was thus infringed, which expressly states that the choice of a child protection solution will take account of the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic origin, and article 21 also, which clearly states that intercountry adoption is possible only if the child cannot be placed for family placement or adoption in the country of origin. or in romania it was and it is possible. the british state must understand that the rights of the child cannot be trampled upon, as it did with the barbu children, without suffering the consequences.
madam president, brexit, a short word which, unfortunately, may sound interesting to those who do not want to go into detail. but we have to understand that a decision to leave the european union does not offer the possibility of a return for the united kingdom. i therefore invite british citizens of romanian origin to understand the importance of this vote and to support remaining in the european union, so that their adopted country can remain close to their country of origin, in a united europe. i also ask the over 150,000 romanians who live and work legally in the uk to invite their friends and relatives to support the british who want to remain in the european union. the vote of those close to them is the key to their right to work, their right to reduced tuition fees, their right to credit, their right to social benefits or even to long-term employment in europe and the uk. by their active participation, tomorrow they can combat extremist messages against labour mobility in the european union, they can show that romanian citizens act civically, in accordance with democratic principles and, above all, they can demonstrate, once again, that romanians living in the uk care about the fate of this country and want it strong, in the european union, alongside romania.
blue-card question. – do you not think the fact that the european council decided to abandon the binding national targets and set a relatively low target of 27% for 2030 is highly disappointing and is going to jeopardise the european union’s renewable energy progress, and that this target should have been established at 40% by the commission?
mr president, commissioner, energy efficiency and renewable energy have triggered many positive developments in most member states. these two components of the energy union, renewable energies, together with energy efficiency, are essential elements for reducing the european union's energy dependence and improving energy security. the establishment of the energy mix must remain a national competence, so that each member state chooses to develop its own form of renewable energy. in future interim reports on renewable energy, i hope to see an assessment of their impact on costs and prices, in particular on prices for household consumers. transparency with regard to full and detailed data on the breakdown of costs and subsidies for the various technologies in the energy sector would provide a more detailed picture of the energy market. i believe that reducing the energy bill for consumers should also be one of the mandatory targets and transparency would be a step in that direction. we are also awaiting the first steps to electrify the first electric cars in the european union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, to be honest, i did not understand whether you support or not the objectives of the commission and the council, but i ask you very clearly: do you think we can suddenly stop producing energy from fossil fuels without investing and that we can destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs by not having modern technologies and not securing resources from the european fund for strategic investments for modern technology in energy production?
mr president, unfortunately there are still politicians who question the negative effects of climate change. what we see happening today in europe, as climate phenomena, as in the world, shows us that we don't have much time left to decarbonize the global economy. that is why i shall support both reports, because they point the way. on the one hand, the development of renewable energy, on the other, energy saving. i want to tell you that romania has already met the target on renewable energy for 2020. i would also like to make an important point: normally, energy investment strategies should be restructured immediately, in the sense of stopping investment in the development of energy capacities based on fossil fuels and, of course, directing investment towards renewable energy, but also towards research and development, especially in the area of electricity storage. any fossil fuel subsidies should also be phased out.
in writing. energy and energy sources are important topics. obviously, we have to consider how we use our natural energy sources and how decarbonization takes place. i am happy that my country, romania, has achieved its 2020 targets, being in the top 3 countries in terms of the percentage of green energy in total energy. unfortunately, the commission did not take into account the reality of each country and tried to suspend national responsibilities for the energy mix. the solution is not to eliminate energy sources, but to invest in modern technologies, in research, to increase the safety of these energy sources and to decarbonize. the efsi and the structural funds have not been used optimally in the fields of energy, transport and energy efficiency. we must not forget consumers, who unfortunately have borne the costs of green energy, and we must rethink the system of subsidies for energy producers. renewable energy must go hand in hand with energy efficiency, which leads to lower consumption and lower costs for consumers.
in writing. the coherence between the ets and energy policies to reduce carbon emissions needs to be strengthened to make a real contribution to energy efficiency improvements. the european fund for strategic investments under the eu investment plan is an instrument that can make an important short-term contribution to energy efficiency investments, and could have significant effects on the internal energy market. the structural funds and the cohesion fund should be used to stimulate investment in energy efficiency, in the development of sustainable low-carbon energy technologies. investments must be fully integrated into national energy efficiency strategies. the production of energy from renewable sources must, however, be linked to the need to ensure the continuity of conventional energy production as a prerequisite for sustainability. the modernisation fund, recently proposed by the commission, is another instrument that could be used to modernise energy systems and improve energy efficiency in low-income eu member states. it is important that this future fund has an appropriate governance structure to enhance its effectiveness according to the specific characteristics of each member state.
in writing. – energy is the source of development. europe needs a policy designed to ensure energy efficiency, sustainability of production and protection of disadvantaged consumers. in order to do that, we need first of all to make sure that we invest in the latest technologies that are capable of raising energy efficiency while taking care of our development needs. furthermore we need to develop a pan-european energy production and distribution plan that takes care of the particularities of each member state and region while at the same time focusing on job creation, training for new skills and the need to ensure energy independence for europe. therefore the energy sector needs an organised investment plan that ensures the modernisation of the industry allowing prices to be kept low for consumers. the modernisation of the industry needs to be inclusive in integrating all the needs of the stakeholders and the member states.
in writing. improving energy efficiency is a key factor in protecting the environment, strengthening economic competitiveness and combating energy poverty. in the case of renewable energy, which is currently cheaper than some conventional energy sources, we are talking about new jobs, economic growth and technological development. if we can increase energy efficiency, we can also reduce our dependence on expensive energy imports and help protect the environment. this measure provides for flexibility in supply and sustainability, which would bring additional benefits to the european union, in particular in construction and transport. in this regard, i believe that eu countries need to do more to fully implement the 2020 framework strategy on climate and energy, which calls for reducing co2 emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and increasing energy efficiency. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment. i hope that romania can also participate in this joint effort and achieve the objectives set by the commission.
in writing. ‒ after the scandal of the panama papers, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry in order to investigate the alleged failure of the commission and the member states regarding the application of several legislations in the field of taxation and money laundering. parliament will now vote on the composition of this committee of inquiry. in addition, parliament is due to finalise its work on the taxe 2 committee in july 2016 and outstanding issues remain unanswered. the council and the commission have not delivered the documents requested, ministers have not all had the opportunity to answer before the committee and revelations related to, amongst other matters, the panama papers have raised further questions which require political dedication and further technical investigation, all of which the mandate of the panama committee of inquiry would be responsible for. i am in favour of continuing the work on taxation issues, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted for our colleagues who will investigate the allegations of money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion. i am glad that this committee has been set up and i am confident that it will do a good job. citizens need more transparency from the eu institutions and assurances that taxpayers' money is being used correctly.
in writing. the ep must take the lead in creating a more transparent business environment that limits the excess speculation and greed that led to the global financial crisis of 2008. the effects of this crisis are still being felt today, and we in the ep need to focus on legislative initiatives, but also on actions to help change mindsets. it is true that taxation is the exclusive competence of the member states, but through cooperative action by the regulatory and supervisory authorities and the example that the ep is setting itself through the work of the newly created committee of inquiry, we will be able to impose a model of conduct. transparency is a key element in protecting citizens' interests, which is why the ep is entitled to be a leader in this area.
in writing. ‒ the involvement of partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy is also reflected in various key agreements. the interest of the republic of lebanon in participating in the programmes and agencies of the union open to the european neighbourhood policy partner states has been materialized by a protocol with standard provisions containing a framework agreement on the general principles of participation of lebanon. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes aims to lay down the financial and technical rules and, at the same time, the measures for economic, financial and technical cooperation. i spoke in favour of the establishment of this agreement because i consider it to be a pillar for strengthening the european neighbourhood policy, making an important contribution to the expansion of external relations and to facilitating the modernisation of the countries neighbouring the european union.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, the eu has developed the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to prevent new dividing lines between the newly enlarged union and its neighbours, and to enhance their prosperity, stability and security. since 2006, lebanon has been one of the 16 neighbouring partners with whom the eu, in the framework of the union for the mediterranean, establishes a bilateral policy based on the values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the protocol to the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement aims to establish the financial and technical rules allowing lebanon to participate in certain union programmes considered relevant for that mediterranean state, such as economic cooperation and financial assistance. lebanon is home to approximately 1.1 million syrian refugees, which is an economic and administrative burden for a country with a population of just four times that number. in the context of the deteriorating situation of syrian refugees, this protocol facilitates the technical procedure for the provision of eu financial assistance, taking also into account that for 2016 the european commission allocates eur 87 million for humanitarian assistance in lebanon.
in writing. ‒ the republic of lebanon is an important strategic partner of the european union and its member states, which has repeatedly demonstrated its seriousness in respecting its international commitments, in particular in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the lebanese republic is the main destination for syrian refugees due to its geographical and cultural proximity to syria. according to the statement of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, of 11 may 2016, there are more than 1,5 million refugees in the republic of lebanon out of an estimated population of 4,5 million. in this context, the beirut government was forced to take measures to ensure that asylum seekers could be received, housed, have access to education, healthcare and the labour market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to establish the main measures of economic, financial and technical cooperation with a view to providing technical assistance to this partner with whom we share a long-standing friendship.
in writing. ‒ as lebanon is a key partner of the union in the middle east, i support the idea that the european union should be more actively engaged in promoting stability in this country.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population. the eu must value strategic relations with lebanon, and supports the country’s stability and security in a turbulent part of the world. to foster stability in lebanon, developing capabilities and promoting people-to-people contacts and the transfer of the expertise is in our interest. the participation of lebanon in the eu’s programmes is a way to tangibly support these strategic objectives. i support the agreement as i believe we must engage with lebanon more actively.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is a crucial partner for the eu in the middle east. having taken over a million refugees from the syrian civil war, with a population of only four million, lebanon is struggling. the eu needs to aid in stabilising the situation and engage more actively with lebanon.
in writing. ‒ the european union aims to establish a common area of peace, stability and shared prosperity in the euro-mediterranean region. i voted for this recommendation that will update the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon by taking into account the enlargement of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of the rapporteur, ms ramona mănescu, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic. this amendment was necessary and i am glad that it has been made.
in writing. ‒ the european union places particular emphasis on strengthening and developing relations with the countries of the mediterranean basin. this direction became evident with the revolutions of the so-called "arab spring" in 2011-2012. relations with lebanon predate these events, with close cooperation between the two sides and constant eu assistance in the context of the lebanese state's efforts to rebuild after decades of civil war. naturally, the lebanese state was included, from the outset, among the partner countries of the euro-mediterranean agreement, but also among the countries of the european neighbourhood policy on the southern dimension of cooperation. as eu-lebanon relations have entered a new historic phase, characterised by enhanced economic and political cooperation and cooperation in the fight against islamic terrorism and illegal migration, the time has come for the signature of the association agreement between the eu and lebanon. that document will lead to the continuation of the normalisation of the internal situation in lebanon, including reconciliation between all ethnic and religious groups, as well as the acceleration of the country's reconstruction process and the proper management of the palestinian refugee problem. i consider this to be a necessary measure and support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the involvement of partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy is also reflected in various key agreements. the interest of the republic of lebanon in participating in the programmes and agencies of the union open to partner states under the european neighbourhood policy has been materialized by a protocol with standard provisions containing a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes aims to lay down the financial and technical rules and, at the same time, the measures for economic, financial and technical cooperation. this report is intended to take account of the accession to the union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic. i consider it essential to provide all member states with equal participation and a fair basis for involvement in the union's actions, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the republic of lebanon is an important partner of the european union in the mediterranean area, representing a key link between european states and the middle east. friendly relations, longstanding cultural, political and economic cooperation, and commitments to strengthening democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights make this partnership a success. since i consider it important that all member states benefit from this agreement, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population. it is in the eu’s interest to foster stability in lebanon, to develop capabilities and to promote people-to-people contacts and the transfer of expertise. the vote updates the agreement by taking account of the enlargement of the eu. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for engaging more actively with lebanon, regarding the council’s decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement, having regard to the 2004 enlargement of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european union aims to establish a common area of peace, stability and shared prosperity in the euro-mediterranean region. i voted for this recommendation that will update the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon by taking into account the enlargement of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the involvement of partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy is also reflected in various key agreements. the interest of the republic of lebanon in participating in the programmes and agencies of the union open to the european neighbourhood policy partner states has been materialized by a protocol with standard provisions containing a framework agreement on the general principles of participation of lebanon. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes aims to lay down the financial and technical rules and, at the same time, the measures for economic, financial and technical cooperation. this report is intended to take account of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the union. i consider it essential to provide all member states with equal participation and a fair basis for involvement in the union's actions, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the lebanese republic is a true cultural, ethnic and religious mosaic, with a population of approximately 4.5 million, which manages to be a model of respect for diversity, tolerance and stability. through its participation in the european neighbourhood policy, the republic of lebanon has been able to implement a significant number of reforms aimed at democratisation, strengthening the rule of law and protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. the republic of lebanon is also an important strategic partner in the field of mobility, migration and security, as it shares many of the vulnerabilities and threats that today characterize the southern flank of the union. an example of this strong partnership is the working and documentary visit of senior lebanese officials in october 2015 to romania, as part of the european union integrated border management programme. i voted in favour of this recommendation, reiterating the importance of deepening economic, political and cultural cooperation between european states and the lebanese republic.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is a key partner for the eu in the middle east. the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million of refugees out of 4 million total population. it is in the eu’s interest to foster stability in lebanon, to develop capabilities and to promote people-to-people contacts and the transfer of expertise. the vote updates the agreement by taking account of the enlargement of the eu. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on the draft council decision regarding the stabilisation of lebanon, having regarded the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european union aims to establish a common area of peace, stability and shared prosperity in the euro-mediterranean region. i have voted for this recommendation that will update the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon by taking into account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft report by mrs mănescu on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. romania has always had good relations with lebanon and this amendment of the protocol, to include romania and bulgaria, was necessary.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of financial account information is an important method of combating cross-border tax fraud and evasion, based on cooperation and strengthening of relations between tax administrations worldwide, while ensuring tax transparency. the protocol amending the eu-monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information is intended to align the measures provided for by the agreement with the similar measures provided for in council directive 2003/48/ec, building on the latest developments at international level with regard to the automatic exchange of information, namely the global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information in tax matters developed by the organisation for economic cooperation and development. the amendment protocol thus transposes the global standards between the member states and monaco with a view to strengthening the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. i consider that transparency in the exchange of information in the tax field is a prerequisite for combating forms of tax evasion, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the european union and monaco to improve tax cooperation and international tax compliance have been concluded with the signing of a new agreement ensuring that monaco applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework updated in december 2014. the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information in tax matters developed by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd), in accordance with and consistent with union law. i support the ep report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco providing for measures similar to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec, as i consider that this arrangement represents an important step towards strengthening the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the eu needs to adopt a clear and coherent policy towards third countries in order to promote its standards internationally and ensure a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, representatives of the european commission and the principality of monaco initialled the agreement establishing arrangements for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts with a view to enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. thus, as of 1 january 2017, it will be possible to combat tax fraud and tax evasion by developing a common tool that will allow tax authorities to identify, assess and investigate potential risks, and in the case of criminal offences, to authorise the administration and enforcement of tax legislation in cross-border situations. wishing to reaffirm the need for transparency on the issue of fees, both at the level of the european union and in relations with third states, i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of monaco establishing measures similar to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement represents an important step in on-going efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that monaco applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. i believe that this agreement is in line with the need for more transparency on tax issues in the eu and in its relations with third countries. the eu member states and monaco will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents, starting in 2018 for information collected since 1 january 2017. i support its aim to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. furthermore, in line with that oecd standard, i welcome the further provisions in the agreement which aim at securing that exchanged information concerns not only income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. i have voted for this report that will start in 2018 an automatic exchange of financial account information held on each other’s territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in the current economic context we need to become increasingly active in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. in this respect, the report voted on today encourages the exchange of information on financial accounts between the european union and the principality of monaco, which will bring more transparency to monegasque banking and facilitate the fight against fraud on european territory. at the same time, the message we are sending to the world is that the eu is no longer tolerant of tax havens and i hope it will continue to do so in the future, by imposing more and more restrictions on companies and citizens who use these spaces to avoid paying taxes and duties.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the european union's fight against tax evasion in the member states, the european institutions have taken steps to adopt automatic exchange of information agreements with a number of third countries in order to improve tax cooperation and compliance with tax rules at international level. these agreements are designed to combat tax fraud and evasion on taxation of savings income, including through so-called 'tax havens'. the principality of monaco is one of the small european states considered a tax haven, where some european citizens hide their income. in this context, as early as 2004, the eu concluded an agreement with monaco for the application of equivalent taxation measures. the new agreement, signed by the european commission in february 2016 and to enter into force in 2018, will facilitate the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts held by residents of the two parties in each other's territory. this agreement will improve administrative cooperation procedures between the two parties in line with the 2014 oecd global standard. i consider this to be a salutary measure and i support the adoption of this report in its present form.
in writing. ‒ the importance of automatic exchange of information has been internationally recognised as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and evasion. in this context, the organisation for economic cooperation and development has established a single global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information, effective as of july 2014. the protocol proposes that the global standard established by the oecd shall apply between the eu member states and monaco. the new arrangement will allow member states and monaco to automatically exchange information on financial accounts existing in their territories as of 2018. this is information that has been collected since 1 january 2017. the aim is to avoid situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide his capital by representing income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the agreement also aims to ensure that monaco applies enhanced measures that are equivalent to the legal framework of the european union and that it complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information. i therefore voted in favour of the protocol to the agreement between the european union and monaco.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the protocol amending the eu-monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the eu and the principality of monaco have concluded an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information with a view to improving tax cooperation and compliance at international level. as a result of the new agreement, the tax authorities of the member states and monaco will be able to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned; administer and enforce their tax legislation in cross-border situations; assess the likelihood of tax evasion; and avoid unnecessary additional investigations.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund plays a key role in supporting workers affected by structural changes in world trade practices. in the present case, the european adjustment fund was requested by belgium to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in three undertakings. the factors triggering these redundancies are both the decrease in public and private investment in infrastructure within the eu and the significant increase in steel prices in europe, which had a negative impact on trade, generating a loss of competitiveness for european construction machinery factories. by mobilising this fund, workers will benefit from various active labour market measures such as: vocational guidance services, job search facilitation, integrated training, job search and training allowances. i voted in favour of this request because i believe it is necessary to support workers who have been made redundant for external reasons through various forms of facilitating their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis, the recession and the austerity measures imposed in certain member states to restore the economy have often had a strong impact on the well-being of citizens. along with falling wages, mass layoffs and a sharp rise in unemployment, especially among young people, have caused a reduction in household income and, by implication, in the purchasing power of citizens. since 2012, following major disruptions caused by rising raw material prices and the relocation of various industries to asian countries, the province of hainaut (belgium) has experienced a rapid increase in the unemployment rate. believing that a global perspective requires first and foremost local action, i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, under which 488 displaced workers and 300 young people under 25 in hainaut who are not in employment will receive support for finding a job, training, retraining and vocational training, contribution for setting up businesses and social or mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium, mainly hainaut. the application relates to 488 redundancies of the enterprise hainaut machinery in belgium operating in the economic sector, classified under nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) during the reference period 25 december 2014 to 25 september 2015. the egaf funding of eur 1,824,041 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 488 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in three enterprises operating in the hainaut region in the construction machinery sector, as well, as for 300 targeted young persons not in employment, education or training (neets) under the age of 25, with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide real support to workers made redundant as a result of the global financial crisis. this fund may not exceed the ceiling of eur 150 million per year. the application by hainaut machinery for access to the amount of eur 1 824 041 for belgium from the egf, concerning the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in three enterprises, has been adopted by the european commission. i voted in favour of this report which provides concrete and effective measures for support, guidance and integration into the labour market, vocational training and courses in this respect, allowances for job search and labour mobility.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to provide belgium with €1.8 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 488 workers made redundant by several manufacturers of construction machinery in the province of hainaut (wallonia, belgium). the aim of the funding is to help these former workers to find new jobs. 300 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) will also be included in the actions planned. the proposal now goes to the european parliament and the eu’s council of ministers for approval. as rapporteur i have voted for this report that would help the workers and the neets find new jobs by providing them with active career guidance, job-search support, vocational training and retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship and contributions to collective projects. job-search and training allowances will also be made available.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the negrescu report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i am pleased that, as a result of this decision, 488 redundant workers and 300 young people under 25 in hainaut who are not in employment will receive support for finding a job, training, retraining and vocational training, contribution for setting up businesses and social or mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ the eu has set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. i welcome the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium, which will cover the 488 redundancies of the enterprise hainaut machinery operating in the economic sector during the reference period 25 december 2014 to 25 september 2015. the egaf funding of eur 1 824 041 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 488 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in three enterprises operating in the hainaut region in the construction machinery sector, as well, as for 300 targeted young persons not in employment, education or training (neets) under the age of 25, with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the sixth mobilisation of the egaf in 2016.
in writing. ‒ responsible exploitation of aquatic resources is required, taking into account sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions. this proposal is intended to transpose into union law the measures provided for in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, so that the latest measures are applied uniformly and immediately throughout the union. a number of new provisions are needed to restore bluefin tuna stocks, including the progressive reduction of total catches, certain fishing restrictions according to zones and periods, a new minimum size for bluefin tuna, and measures relating to spawning and fishing capacity. the purpose of this initiative is therefore to restore bluefin tuna stocks by laying down a series of provisions on reducing total allowable catches and fishing capacity and strengthening control measures. i believe that the exploitation of aquatic resources, and not only, should always be based on principles such as sustainable development and take into account the protection of natural resources, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the european union, as a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) - the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) - has responsibility for the management of bluefin tuna and other similar stocks in the eastern atlantic ocean and the mediterranean sea. the proposal drawn up by the european commission contains a number of technical measures relating to industrial and non-industrial fishing efforts, highlighting the low impact on marine ecosystems of artisanal fishing techniques and their importance for the recovery of tuna stocks and the economic support of smes. i voted in favour of this report, on the one hand, to draw attention to the importance of using transparent, objective, social and environmental criteria in dealing with the subject of fishing in european waters and, on the other hand, to affirm the importance of maintaining the codecision procedure in the transposition of the rfmo recommendations.
in writing. ‒ when dealing with this fishing sustainability, we must safeguard long-term productivity, promote local employment opportunities, encourage the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources. unfortunately, the current bluefin tuna fishing quota system penalises small-scale fishermen, and needs to be reviewed. owners of large vessels are too dominant and might harm fishing sustainability. i therefore support transposal into union law of the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. i believe that the technical measures included in the multiannual recovery plan will lead to positive developments for environment, nature and local employment.
in writing. ‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has been the decision-making authority since 2006 for the conservation and management of fisheries, the most important regulated species being bluefin tuna. i voted in favour of this report for the effective implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan with a significant impact on the marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims at transposing into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna (bft) recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. i have voted for this report that contains technical measures such as those on transfer and caging operations of live bft, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the quantities of bft and releases, catch reporting requirements, and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe it is extremely important that these multiannual plans for the various fish stocks be adopted as soon as possible. the negotiation and adoption of this multiannual plan for bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic ocean and the mediterranean sea is part of the process of establishing these multiannual plans for fish stocks in eu seas as part of the cfp. multiannual plans are the basic instrument of the cfp, without which we will not be able to meet the objectives of sustainable fisheries and the protection of fish stocks set by the cfp. in this respect, the unblocking of this situation, which has been achieved today by the adoption of this multiannual plan, gives us hope that we will be able to achieve the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ stocks of bluefin tuna are particularly vulnerable to over-exploitation and therefore need careful management. i have been a rapporteur on this issue in the past and i am aware of the tensions and difficulties which can arise when setting quotas. however, if strict rules are not applied to ensure that catches are below maximum sustainable yields then the future of the fishing industry itself is put at risk. management of fisheries and enforcement of these regulations at sea remain big challenges with important social, economic and environmental consequences.
in writing. ‒ fishing is one of the european union's important economic activities, generating jobs, income and significant food resources for the member states. one component of this activity is the tuna fishery in the atlantic region, which provides significant quantities to the member states concerned. at the same time, however, the eu is a signatory to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), a regional fisheries management organisation which regulates maximum catch levels to avoid harming the biodiversity of the marine fauna in the area. scientific studies carried out in recent years have concluded that bluefin tuna stocks have been dramatically regenerated, allowing the eu quota to be increased. in those circumstances, the commission proposed a uniform and effective approach to iccat regulations across the union, including technical measures for transfer and declaration of bluefin tuna catches, the use of stereoscopic cameras, the obligation to land in case of overfishing. this is a constructive proposal, but the role of the european parliament could be more important in this area which directly concerns european citizens. for these reasons, i support the adoption of the present report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to transpose into european law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted in 2006 by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), to which the european union is a contracting party. in order to restore stocks, recovery plans provide for a progressive reduction in the level of total allowable catches, a limitation of fishing in certain areas and during certain periods, and measures on sport and recreational fishing. the proposal contains technical measures on transfer and retention operations of live bluefin tuna and measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate bluefin tuna quantities. the purpose of applying these iccat recommendations is to have uniform action at european union level with a view to the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. the report provides for the use of artisanal stock conservation tools and techniques to this end, through the implementation of the recovery plan. i therefore voted in favour of the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks is intended to establish a framework for the management of the many species in those stocks. given that herring, cod and sprat in the baltic sea account for more than 94% of the catches in recent years, it is necessary to provide for rules to allow for the recognition of interactions between the species concerned. even if there was a management plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea, it is not sufficiently adapted to the new conditions, especially as herring and sprat stocks are not included in any management plan. this requires a multi-species management approach, taking into account sustainable and responsible exploitation and ensuring the stability of fishing opportunities. given the importance of cod, herring and sprat for the baltic sea ecosystem and the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the baltic sea stocks, i believe that a multiannual plan is needed for the proper management of these stocks, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ as a contracting party to the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982, the european union promotes a prudent and ecosystem-based approach to the regulation of fisheries and aquaculture. therefore, to ensure the socio-economic and environmental sustainability of the policies covered by the multiannual plan, permanent, effective and transparent collaboration between the co-legislators and the european commission is necessary. in order to minimise the negative effects of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem, technical support measures should be introduced, the selectivity of gear and practices improved, conservation reference levels established and a global fisheries plan drawn up. i voted in favour of this report, wanting to express the importance of institutional collaboration, consultation with experts and specialised bodies in order to create sustainable fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ multiannual plans are fundamental to reduce fishing mortality to rate which can maximise long-term sustainable yield. the current management regimes do not allow sufficient predictability concerning the proper conservation of the stocks, or concerning fishing opportunities for the fisherman. i therefore support changes in order to cover, in a single management plan, the three main fished species distributed in eight stocks in the baltic sea, namely two for cod, five for herring and one for sprat, with the aim to achieve and maintain maximum sustainable yield (msy) for these stocks. moreover, i support the proposal to set a target range of fishing mortality in line with the msy principle as from 2015, and a minimum level of the spawning stock biomass which fishing management measures should strive to conserve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is of great importance in ensuring that legislation is in place to identify the interactions between the species concerned, the influence of cod species on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa and for the exploitation of fisheries. the commission should include all fish stocks in the baltic sea in a single management plan. this plan would look much more closely at the problem of fish stocks in the baltic sea area with a view to an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ the cfp is a set of rules for managing european fishing fleets and for conserving fish stocks. this is the first multiannual management plan under the reformed cfp. i have voted for this report that aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, while ensuring that management is based on the most up to date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is extremely important that these multiannual plans for the various fish stocks come into force as soon as possible. the negotiation and adoption of this multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea was a very long and arduous process, due to disputes between the european parliament and the council over the powers held in this case. the adoption of multiannual plans for these fish stocks is the basic instrument used to achieve the objectives of sustainable fishing and the protection of fish stocks set out in the cfp. in this regard, the resolution of this situation by adopting this plan will help to adopt, within a reasonable time, future multiannual plans for the other eu seas, including the black sea.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a management plan is needed for several species in the baltic sea and i welcome the commission's proposal to revise the regulation in this respect. the multi-species approach is much more effective than the single-species approach and the plan should provide for the sustainable and balanced exploitation of these stocks and guarantee the stability of fishing opportunities and, of course, the sources of income of fishermen. the multiannual plans should also ensure that the management of cod and herring stocks is based on the latest scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fishing activities. i also support the commission's position that the regulation should include rules on by-catches of flatfish. flatfish such as baltic flounder, flounder, helical and helical-net may constitute significant by-catches during cod fishing and do not expose cod, herring and sprat to any major risk.
in writing. ‒ the baltic sea fisheries provide an important input to the eu-wide fisheries sector. within this almost enclosed body of water, no less than 94% of catches are cod, herring and sprat, just accidentally flatfish and other species. in this context, the commission has considered since 2008 that an integrated management of the catches of the three main species is needed in order not to affect the sustainable development of the marine ecosystem concerned. scientific studies in recent years have shown that fish stocks among the three species are interdependent, the cod being predatory on the other two. in these circumstances, the commission proposed a common regulation for the management of these stocks in the baltic sea, which includes maximum allowable stocks for each of the three species, but also for flatfish such as hake. the document also includes a multiannual approach, encourages small-scale artisanal fishing and provides for periodic reviews every five years for more flexibility. i consider this to be an important document for the marine ecosystem in the baltic sea under the new common fisheries policy and therefore support its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014, the commission proposed a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this plan is the first to be proposed, based on the principles of the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy. a multiannual management plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems. in accordance with the principle laid down in article 2 of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy, exploitation must allow the populations of species to be restored and maintained at levels above those which allow maximum sustainable yield to be achieved. multiannual management plans for these stocks which are interdependent aim to keep the size of stocks within biologically safe limits. those plans shall provide for a maximum catch and a series of technical measures, taking into account the characteristics of each stock and the economic impact of the measures on the fisheries exploiting those stocks. i therefore voted in favour of the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks.
in writing. ‒ this initiative concerns jurisdiction and applicable law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, by establishing which court has jurisdiction to rule on applications in matrimonial matters. this proposal comes against the background of the increased mobility of persons, which generates an increase in the number of couples made up of citizens of different member states living in a member state other than their member state of origin. the various studies have revealed a number of difficulties faced by these transnational couples, difficulties caused by certain incompatibilities between the applicable rules governing the property effects of marriage, both those of substantive law and private international law. however, the approach to the proposal in question is not common to all member states, and the reason is that the provisions are insufficient to create a homogeneous framework, which takes into account all the situations that may arise in this sector, which is why i chose to abstain from the final vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ matrimonial law is the system of legal rules governing the property rights and obligations of spouses, both in their relations with each other and with third parties. this regulation clearly determines the court with jurisdiction to rule on applications in matrimonial property regimes. if a member state does not approve the marriage in question, the courts of that state shall be given the opportunity to refer the case to the courts of another state of the union, which shall recognise the marriage in question. i support this report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, as i consider that the regulation meets the requirements of the european parliament as regards both the circulation and enforceability of authentic instruments and judicial transactions. the agreement is clearly beneficial for the union and is also an important step for international couples in the eu, providing them with new means of transmitting basic legal information.
in writing. ‒ the disappearance of internal european borders has led to increased mobility, both for tourist and professional purposes, with a significant impact on the number of couples of different nationalities. however, these transnational couples face a number of practical and legal difficulties, in particular in relation to matrimonial regimes and the property consequences of the end of a marriage. i believe that the legal security of european citizens can be guaranteed by adopting common rules in the context of property regimes, containing specific provisions on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments on the property regimes of international couples. i voted in favour of this report, reiterating the need for the rules on jurisdiction and related procedures to be consistent in order to ensure legal certainty and predictability for citizens.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the regulation is to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. due to the free movement of people in the eu there has been a significant increase in the numbers of international couples or couples that need to deal with cross-border issues. these couples are currently facing legal problems in dealing with property, both inside their marriage, and when dividing property in case of divorce. matters already covered by existing eu regulations, such as maintenance obligations, especially between spouses, and matters arising from the law of succession, are excluded from the scope of the regulation. the regulation aims at providing clear instructions that will help international couples choose the law that is applicable to them, the jurisdiction of the courts and also in terms of the recognition and enforcement of decisions adopted in other member states. the regulation does not affect the existence or validity of marriage under national law or the recognition in one member state of a marriage concluded in another member state. i supported the report in the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the regulation will be a very useful tool for international couples in the eu. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is thus protected given that the regulation excludes from its scope, in particular, matters relating to the capacity of partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a partnership, maintenance obligations and the succession of a deceased partner. it is also without prejudice to the substance of the law of the member states as regards registered partnerships or their property effects. the property effects of registered partnerships proposed in the regulation are clearly in the interest of the union and of international couples, helping to eliminate many cases of confusion and legal difficulties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with direct and positive effects on international couples and on the european union on matrimonial property regimes. by applying this regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, legal confusion and difficulties will be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ due to the free movement of people in the eu there has been a significant increase in the numbers of families that need to deal with cross-border issues. these families are currently facing legal problems in dealing with property, both inside their marriage, and when dividing property in case of divorce. i have voted for this report that aims to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify the legal rules on matrimonial property regimes in the member states of the european union as regards international couples. the report voted today introduces a new regulation with clear provisions on the transfer of property rights in the event of divorce or death of one of the partners in the matrimonial institution. the regulation voted today also introduces a law of universal application, which ensures flexibility in the application of third country law. this regulation therefore puts an end to the fractionation of the law applicable to the matrimonial property regime of the eu couple, a subject of major importance for a very large number of romanians in such situations. through this initiative, the council and the european parliament are helping to clarify the jurisdiction between national and european courts to rule on property law cases in eu matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ the overall aim of this regulation is clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. this is a necessary procedure in light of the fact that the free movement of people has led to a significant increase in the numbers of international couples. these couples have to deal with a number of cross-border issues, and are facing legal problems in dealing with property and when dividing it in case of divorce. therefore, the present regulation will provide clear instructions which will help international couples by allowing them to choose the law that is applicable to them, the jurisdiction of the courts and also as regards the recognition and enforcement of decisions adopted in other member states.
in writing. ‒ this initiative concerns jurisdiction and applicable law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of judgments on the property consequences of registered partnerships, by determining which court has jurisdiction to rule on claims on the property consequences of registered partnerships. this proposal comes against the background of increased mobility of persons, which is generating an increase in the number of couples made up of citizens of different member states living in a member state other than their member state of origin. the various studies have revealed a number of difficulties faced by these transnational couples, difficulties arising from certain incompatibilities between the applicable rules governing the matrimonial property regime, both those of substantive law and private international law. however, the approach to the proposal in question is not common to all member states, and the reason is that the provisions are insufficient to create a homogeneous framework that takes into account all situations that may arise in this sector, which is why i chose to abstain from the final vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ in contemporary society, although marriage is the most common form of couple, we are seeing new forms of union, including registered partnerships. it involves the formal registration in the public register of the union of two persons in a stable relationship. this proposal for a regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships is of major interest to the eu as it clarifies a number of confusions in the application of previous legislation on the law applicable to international couples. we live in a mobile world, and recognizing the rights of international partners, no matter where they are, will put an end to the legal regime of fractionation of couples' assets. the major achievement of this proposal for a council report, which i support, is the unity of the applicable law, according to which the property rights of registered partnerships apply to all property held in the partnership, wherever it may be. the regulation allows for the choice of the law applicable to the property consequences of registered partnerships, but this choice is limited by the requirement to be a national of the member state concerned or to have his habitual residence there. in addition, this regulation respects the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law and is without prejudice to the substance of the law of the member states on registered partnerships or their property effects.
in writing. ‒ the possibility of free travel within the union and the mobility of the labour force have led to an increase in the number of couples with different nationalities. alongside marriage, registered partnerships provide rights and obligations to couples who decide to formalise their relationship with the authorities of the state of residence. however, this form of formalisation of the relationship is not recognised in all member states and there are major differences between the laws of the states which allow registered partnerships. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships because i consider it an important step in facilitating the legal and administrative procedures faced by a large number of international couples.
in writing. ‒ i find it extremely important to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. due to the free movement of people in the eu there has been a significant increase in the numbers of international couples or couples that need to deal with cross-border issues. these couples are currently facing legal problems in dealing with property, both inside their marriage, and when dividing property in case of divorce. parliament adopted its position on these regulations during the last mandate, and it is very regretful the fact that the council took such a long time to take a position. i welcome the enhanced cooperation and hope that other member states will decide to join, as this regulation will make life of european international couples much easier and offer them legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the property effects of registered partnerships concern international couples, but also the principle of unity within the union, as it will reduce confusion and legal obstacles. this will facilitate access to basic legal information for international couples, although obligations relating to the existence, validity or recognition of partnerships and obligations relating to maintenance obligations or the succession of a deceased partner will remain the responsibility of member states. in this context, the legal regime of the couple's property will be clarified and well defined. this will allow data subjects to choose the law applicable to the property consequences of registered partnerships, but will be limited by the requirement of citizenship or residence in a particular member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, whose proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments has a beneficial and positive effect on the property consequences of registered partnerships and on the european union. it is hoped that this vote will enable parliament to give its favourable opinion on this proposal without any substantial changes at this stage.
in writing. ‒ due to the free movement of people in the eu there has been a significant increase in the numbers of families that need to deal with cross-border issues. these families are currently facing legal problems in dealing with property, both inside their marriage, and when dividing property in case of divorce. i have voted for this report that aims to establish a clear legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of registered partnerships property regimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships. the personal opinion was favourable, as this regulation will remove many confusions and legal difficulties in regulating the legal aspects of international couples in the european union. in this respect, the report voted today clearly establishes the court with jurisdiction to rule on claims relating to the property effects of registered partnerships. this regulation will also provide flexibility in the legal regulation of the status quo for international couples in the eu, giving them the possibility to refer their case to another court.
in writing. ‒ the overall aim of this regulation is to create a clear legal framework in the eu for determining the jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of the property consequences of registered partnership. this is a necessary procedure in light of the fact that the free movement of people has led to a significant increase in the numbers of international couples. thse couples have to deal with a number of cross-border issues, and are facing legal problems in dealing with property and when dividing it following separation. therefore, the present regulation will provide clear instructions which will help international couples by allowing them to choose the law that is applicable to them, the jurisdiction of the courts and also as regards the recognition and enforcement of decisions adopted in other member states.
in writing. ‒ the democratic republic of congo is in an alarming situation. the military and humanitarian crisis caused the death of about 5 million people. children have been attacked, women have been abused, a number of territories in eastern congo have been occupied by armed groups. various actors estimate that over 7 million people require assistance and support services. the humanitarian crisis is intensifying, with hundreds of thousands of congolese being forced to flee the country. the vulnerability of the congolese has reached a maximum in the context of the military crisis, and they need immediate support. i cannot but welcome the efforts of the congolese authorities to combat this crisis, but the improvements must be much more visible. immediate action is needed against violations of human rights and freedoms, urgent and political solutions are needed to resolve the crisis in the east of the republic of congo in order to establish public safety and security and consolidate peace, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ over the past 20 years, more than 6 million people have lost their lives in the civil conflict in eastern democratic republic of congo, and the situation continues to deteriorate despite the efforts of international organisations. the causes of this persistent climate of violence are diverse, including the lack of state institutions that could allow for dialogue and increased interethnic cooperation, conflict between paramilitary groups and the army, or the struggle of organized crime groups to gain control of numerous natural resources and borders to facilitate illicit trafficking. the deterioration of living conditions and the lack of progress in respecting human rights, together with the state of insecurity and uncertainty to which the citizens of that state are subject, indicate the need to increase the importance given to this conflict. i strongly condemn the massacres in the east of the democratic republic of congo, the recruitment and use of minors in armed conflict, the physical or sexual violence against children, women and men, the attacks on humanitarian workers and the silencing of the media. the european union's assistance must continue, in particular to develop state institutions and promote inclusive social dialogue, in the context of the organisation of the next presidential elections, which will play a major role in stabilising the political situation.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely concerned by the deteriorating security situation in the north-eastern part of the democratic republic of congo, by the numerous reports of massacres, recruitment and use of children by armed groups and widespread violence. i strongly support the call on the drc government and the the onu peacekeeping mission monusco to conduct an investigation on the failures of the congolese and monusco forces to protect civilians in the region of beni. a thorough, independent and transparent investigation to be launched by the international community into the massacres is urgently needed, in order to find out who is behind these attacks beside the allied democratic forces (adf). the neutralisation of all armed groups, safety for all citizens and stability in the territories of beni, lubero and butembo has to be our priority. perpetrators of human rights violations, war crimes, crimes against humanity and sexual violence must be reported, identified, prosecuted and punished in accordance with national and international criminal law.
in writing. ‒ the security situation in the democratic republic of the congo continues to deteriorate in the north-eastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups remain active, with numerous reports of massacres, of recruitment and use of children by armed groups, and of widespread sexual and gender-based violence. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children from their ranks and promote dialogue towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the worrying situation in the congo. recently, there has been an escalation of violence, which has led to a deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of congo. the humanitarian crisis is caused in particular by the armed conflicts in the eastern provinces of the country, which have lasted for over 20 years. unfortunately, too many lives are being lost in this endless conflict, and today, through this vote, i want to express my solidarity with the people of the drc. i call on the eu and its member states to maintain their assistance measures to the people of the drc in order to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable segments of the population, in particular of internally displaced persons. i also want to condemn any attack against humanitarian personnel, as well as the denial of access for the purpose of saving lives or distributing humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the european union attaches great importance to relations with african states in order to support the strengthening of democracy, economic development and social conditions in this part of the world. in this respect, a very good relationship has been developed with the democratic republic of congo, a country affected by military and civil conflicts in recent decades. currently, in the east of the country, a number of armed rebel groups are operating, manifesting themselves violently through the massacre of civilians and the abduction of humanitarian activists, promoting ethnic cleansing, illegal diamond trafficking, the secession of certain regions. the eu has been actively involved in humanitarian assistance to the population of the region and in supporting the country's armed forces through the un stabilisation mission in the drc (monusco). however, efforts made so far have not led to a remedy of the situation on the spot. at the same time, the government administration has undertaken a series of reprehensible measures against the leaders of the political opposition, which are likely to discredit the democratic system among the local populations. the present resolutions support a greater involvement of the eu institutions, in cooperation with the congolese authorities, in the resolution of internal problems and in the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law in the drc. i support the adoption of these necessary documents.
in writing. ‒ education and training are very important because they help people to acquire the knowledge and skills they need to become competitive and innovative employees. it also plays an important role in shaping human beings with an open mind, empathy and curiosity, but also responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity, with a deep knowledge of their culture and heritage, who respect and know the common european values. it is worth noting that the recalibration of et2020 is achieved both by reflecting the paris declaration of the minister of education of 17 march 2015 and by placing a very high importance on the objectives related to employability and the promotion of social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic skills. i voted in favour of the report on the measures taken as a result of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020) because i believe that the best possible cooperation at european level is needed in education.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the vet 2020 strategy is to support member states in developing education and training systems to enable all european citizens to acquire and develop the skills and competences necessary for employment and lifelong learning, covering all levels and contexts, namely formal, non-formal and informal. i would stress that one of the most effective ways of combating inequality and poverty is to strengthen education; i therefore note that the effectiveness and operational aspects of et2020 need to be strengthened and call for increased attention to the quality of education, starting from kindergarten and then throughout life, which will allow young people to adapt easily to the changing social and economic environment. the union needs to respond as quickly as possible to the current challenges, therefore we need urgent measures at national and european level in the framework of et2020 for adult asylum seekers who have recently arrived in europe. education is key to integration, and participation in training and lifelong learning programmes is an opportunity for newly arrived immigrants.
in writing. ‒ through european cooperation in education and training, member states have the opportunity to promote a range of education policies that favour the equitable distribution of knowledge among the population, reducing socioeconomic disparities and increasing social inclusion. i believe that access to quality education and training programmes is a right that must be guaranteed to all european citizens. without losing sight of the importance of acquiring practical skills for professional integration, it is essential that vocational education and training systems allow for the acquisition of transversal civic, social and intercultural skills that are beneficial to the development of creativity and critical thinking. by promoting democratic values and principles and by increasing investment in education, research and innovation, a truly inclusive system can also be created, significantly reducing the chances of extremist and radical currents emerging. i voted in favour of this report, wanting to reiterate the importance of non-discriminatory access to education and training, the transmission of social, civic and ethical principles and values, support for teaching staff and increased investment in this area. i therefore wish to encourage cooperation and the exchange of good practice, inspired by the different european traditions, with a view to undertaking ambitious, coordinated and effective policy action at european level.
in writing. ‒ i believe that communication strategies between school and parents and character building and other personal development programmes, implemented in the learning environment, in cooperation with families and other relevant social partners, can contribute to a bottom-up social convergence, to the promotion of active citizenship and european values. i also believe that an encouraging family environment is essential for children to acquire the right basic skills and highlights the value of parent training, which can be effective in tackling educational poverty.
in writing. ‒ the et2020 education and training strategic framework has been revisited by the council and parliament in order to strengthen its effectiveness, reorder the priority areas of action and increase its added value. the et2020 stocktaking exercise underlines the need to achieve the long-term goals while working on issues of country-specific relevance: low rates of adult learning, early school leaving, social inclusion, the gender gap, teacher training, etc. as the s&d group, we have included the need for maximum focus on social inclusion in order to reach the et2020 targets and improve the inclusiveness and the quality of education and training systems in a lifelong learning perspective, and we are calling for better governance and cooperation in this area. digital skills, high-quality early childhood education and inclusive education, to ensure equal access and opportunities for all, including access to mobility opportunities especially for vet and more vulnerable groups are all important. a specific chapter is included on migration and education, calling for the proper integration of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers in education and training systems. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the correct and effective use of the framework for action taken as a result of the strategic climate for european cooperation in education and training (et2020). education makes a huge contribution to the formation of the free, creative and knowledgeable european adult. vocational education and training are at the heart of acquired vocational skills. it must be encouraged both through effective programmes such as erasmus+ and by contributing to the added value of human potential, of future responsible european citizens with a strong sense of identity, with a thorough knowledge of their culture and heritage.
in writing. ‒ education and training 2020 (et2020) is the framework for cooperation in education and training. it is a forum for exchanges of best practice, mutual learning and the gathering and dissemination of information and evidence of what works, as well as advice and support for policy reforms. i voted for this report, which will put in place at national and european levels, including within the et2020 framework, education and training measures for adult asylum seekers who have recently arrived in europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the conclusions presented in this report, reflecting the findings of the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020). ensuring the quality of education and training, understood as encompassing formal, non-formal and informal systems, is now more necessary than ever in a context of high youth unemployment and further challenges. the follow-up to et2020 indicates that significant problems persist with regard to quality, accessibility and socio-economic discrimination in education and training. better coordination, both at european and at national level, needs to be achieved. this should include measures such as the extension of the work cycle from three to five years, the establishment of a new generation of et2020 working groups, a strengthening of the steering role of informal bodies within et2020, and the creation of an informal coordination body.
in writing. ‒ social inclusion has a key role to play in achieving the et2020 objectives. improving the quality of education and training systems is necessary to ensure opportunities for all, especially for vulnerable groups. we need all actors to be involved in the long-term learning/training process. good governance and close cooperation between member states are key elements in achieving these objectives.
in writing. ‒ european cooperation in education and training is voluntary, but a strategic framework sets the objectives to be achieved by 2020. this framework structures communication in the field of education between member states at the level of the european union. in this context, the report in question sets out a detailed work programme and benchmarks approved in successive documents between 2001 and 2003. i believe that vocational education and training should not only be about meeting labour market needs but should be a value in itself, as education has an important role in the development of civic and ethical virtues. for this reason, i support by my vote the recommendations set out in the report.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energy needs a new approach to make it the main pillar of the eu's energy model. it is a fundamental responsibility to combat climate change, it is a historic duty that must be fulfilled. the transition to a sustainable production model is a social priority that cannot be solved by the market alone, and democratic participation and regulation are necessary elements to avoid serious environmental and social externalities, which do not allow us to let energy oligopolies define europe's energy future. the eu has a legal instrument to help achieve this through the renewable energy directive. by adopting this directive, europe has initiated a process of transformation of the energy mix in the member states, a legal instrument which has allowed the establishment of a favourable framework for the development of the renewable energy sector and has contributed to the development of a diversified and varied sector. i voted in favour of the renewable energy progress report because this renewable energy source is needed for all eu member states, both to make progress on bioenergy and to combat climate change in the eu and beyond.
in writing. ‒ the shift towards renewable energies is of the utmost importance for the european union’s energy model. we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels in order to combat climate change effectively. with this, we must ensure the creation of quality jobs and the development of necessary technologies in order to ensure a successful and smooth energy transition. the adoption of the renewables directive has provided a legal instrument to create a varied and diversified sector, through binding targets and clear rules on supervision and monitoring. this has allowed many of the member states to work more effectively to achieve the targets set for 2020. since reducing greenhouse gas emissions also depends on achieving the goals in renewable energy, it is important that the measures adopted improve support mechanisms for renewable energy sources to ensure that consumers benefit from the technological advances. thus, i voted for the resolution on the renewable energy progress report to ensure that we will reach the targets set for 2020 and those of the cop 21 paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ technological advances in the production and storage of energy from renewable sources, the awareness of the need to reduce the impact on the environment in order to achieve sustainable development, and the need to increase the autonomy of member states in a period when energy is used in constraint policies indicate the importance of the widespread use of these resources. in this context, i believe that the european union and the member states need to set more ambitious climate and energy targets, exceeding the european council's target of 27% of energy from renewable sources in energy consumption by 2030. i voted in favour of this report, wanting to underline the importance of diversifying energy sources in order to build a true european energy union. responsible, effective and transparent monitoring of the implementation of existing european legislation, encouraging public investment and democratic control over the energy sector will make it possible to eliminate energy oligopolies and ensure an autonomous, sustainable and efficient energy model.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is important to exchange best practices on national renewable energy policies in order to promote their adoption within a more convergent european model, fostering increased cooperation and coordination between member states.
in writing. ‒ continued investment in renewables requires ambitious leadership and commitment and a long-term, stable and reliable policy framework consistent with the climate commitments made by the eu in paris. in order to achieve our goals, the commission has to ensure full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy directive and put forward an ambitious post-2020 legislative framework. the fact that the european council decided to abandon the binding national targets and set a relatively low target of 27% for 2030, binding purely at european level, is highly disappointing. i support an eu that is on track to meet its 2020 targets thanks to the use of binding national targets. i will not accept getting rid of these targets and i will not accept the european council’s low 2030 target.
in writing. ‒ my country, romania, is in first place in the percentage of green energy in total energy produced, but consumers have had a high cost and it is not normal to transfer all the pressure to the final consumer. i did not support this report because it does not contain clear provisions on how to protect consumers from the increase in the price of green energy, it does not clearly provide for the involvement of the efsi in research for modern technologies for efficiency and decarbonisation. they also disagree with the fact that no account was taken of country-specific conditions and subsidiarity requirements in the energy mix.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the development of renewable energy at european level, which, by supporting the legal framework at european union level, would encourage public investment, democratic control and facilitate the collective and democratic management of this sector. the aim is to ensure a fully sovereign and effective strategic model by 2050.
in writing. ‒ by 2030, half of our electricity will be renewable. by 2035, electricity will be carbon-free. renewable sources produce alternatives to fossil fuels and aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. these sources contribute to diversifying energy supply and reducing dependence on volatile and unreliable fossil fuel markets, in particular oil and gas. the development of renewable energy (wind, solar, hydroelectric, ocean, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) is a priority at eu level. the report provides recommendations specific to each member state and may thus help more than 5 countries to achieve the targets proposed at union level. the old framework for promoting renewable energy - for example the promotion of biofuels in transport - also had a strong negative impact on food production. we need to have global coordination and planning of logistics and urban policies for them to become truly sustainable.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on renewable energy because a stable regulatory framework is needed in the long term. the transition to a sustainable energy system must include efforts in energy efficiency, renewable energy, the optimal use of europe's energy resources and smart infrastructure. the development of renewable energy should coincide with the development of a functioning internal market for electricity, ensuring a level playing field for all market participants. renewable energy needs to involve more stakeholders and consumers in the energy system. the commission should include in future interim reports on renewable energy an assessment of the impact of renewable energy sources on costs and prices, in particular household prices. the production of energy from renewable sources should be linked to the need to ensure the continuity of conventional energy production, as a prerequisite for sustainability, security of supply and competitiveness. the establishment of the energy mix of the member states should remain a national competence, as the energy mix remains highly diversified. finally, incentives for the development of indigenous energy sources, such as hydroelectricity, as a renewable energy source, remain a priority.
in writing. ‒ the renewable energy progress report assesses the member states’ efforts in the promotion and use of renewable energy. in the run-up to the review of the renewable energy directive and associated instruments, which will take place later this year, parliament took the opportunity to show its support for this legal mechanism that has an enormous potential to drive substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. although we acknowledge the growth driven by the development of renewable energy in various sectors, some constructive criticisms are nonetheless in order, to make the framework sustainable to the fullest degree. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that seeks to orientate policy towards a cost-efficient and clean energy model for 2050.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energies calls for a new approach that entails making them the main pillar of the european union’s energy model. i voted for this report, which looks at progress towards meeting the eu’s 2020 20% renewable energy target, and also looks forward to the post-2020 framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must continue and strengthen its policy of developing the renewable energy industry, a policy which is close to achieving its 2020 targets. due to technological advances in recent years, advances in the process of generation and storage, the costs of producing energy from renewable sources have decreased significantly. this now allows this energy to be increasingly competitive with fossil energy. i welcome the proposal in the report to step up cooperation between the european commission and the member states to improve energy performance from renewable sources, energy that consumes few natural resources, with the same qualities, and, not least, energy that reduces pollution and greenhouse gases.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy contributes to increased energy independence and reduced greenhouse gases. some good progress has been made. however, the 2030 targets need to be ambitious enough to send a strong signal for investment in renewable energy projects which are sustainable both economically and environmentally. sustainability criteria for biomass will be especially important in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ global warming has brought to the fore the need to develop the renewable energy sector. the european union and its member states have formally supported this process over the past decades, becoming the main promoters of renewable energy worldwide. however, the transition to the sustainable energy production model involves a significant regulatory effort, in particular at social, environmental and competitiveness levels. the first step was taken with the adoption of directive 2009/28/ec on renewable energy, which contributed to the development and diversification of the sector at european level. however, more ambitious political momentum is needed to achieve the targets set for 2020 and beyond. regulation of the use of biofuels in transport is now needed to avoid a negative impact on the food industry, a stable investment framework, the creation of new quality jobs in the field and the maintenance of binding targets at national level. without the latter, it will be impossible to make the progress needed to achieve the 2030 targets. i therefore support the adoption of the present form of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive contains several positive points, such as the importance of energy efficiency for achieving climate objectives, the need for better monitoring and clarification of the definition of smes and state aid rules. excessive reporting requirements are criticised and a stronger focus on energy efficiency instead of energy saving is called for. however, there are a number of important provisions, such as the 40% energy efficiency target for 2030, which in my view are neither reasonable nor tangible. i therefore voted against this report, considering that we need much more feasible targets.
in writing. ‒ greenhouse gas emissions have steadily reduced by increasing the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption. the energy efficiency directive aims to encourage member states to invest in energy efficient technologies. while the scheme may aid in starting the transition towards a more sustainable energy system, the directive is poorly implemented, hindering its full potential. the unambitious target of 27% for improving energy efficiency in 2030 can only be justified by an extremely unrealistic high discount rate. in light of the paris climate change agreement, there should be a 2030 target that better reflects the level of cost-effective energy efficiency potential. this high discount rate overlooks the role of public bodies in driving energy efficiency improvements. there should be new innovative and smart solutions to better utilise renewable energy and to reduce energy consumption. for these reasons, i voted against the resolution on the implementation report of the energy efficiency directive. in devising energy efficiency plans, energy audits based on reducing energy consumption must be conducted to address energy poverty. there needs to be a more comprehensive approach to improving energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ increased energy efficiency and energy saving are key factors for, among others, environmental and climate protection, strengthening economic competitiveness and job creation. the fact that the eu is not on track to meet its 2020 energy efficiency target due to poor implementation of the eed, excessive flexibility and too many loopholes is extremely disappointing. the commission projects on which we are on track reach 17.6% instead of 20% for 2020. we must keep calling on the commission to propose a revised text eliminating loopholes and taking into account a target for 2030 of 40%. the 2030 target should be significantly higher and more ambitious than the one set by the european council, which is only 27%. finally, i believe that the energy efficiency directive should prioritise measures to alleviate energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the important role of energy efficiency in meeting the european union's target of increasing production by 20% and reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this directive represents an opportunity to optimise and increase energy consumption efficiently in a way that is sustainable for the economy.
in writing. ‒ this report has shed some light on a series of problems regarding cost reductions achieved through energy savings. i supported this motion for a resolution that calls upon the commission to generate clever solutions to problems such as increased energy prices for households and small businesses or complex reporting obligations. in view of a coherent climate and energy policy, the commission needs to make additional efforts to detect any ambiguities, inconsistencies or inadequacies between eu-wide rules on climate protection, legislation linked with energy efficiency and national approaches to energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this implementation report that looks at how the energy efficiency directive (agreed in 2012) is being implemented by the member states, and the progress to reaching the 2020 20% energy efficiency target, as well as looking forward to the 2030 framework and target.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the efficient use of energy is a matter of common interest for all the member states of the european union and has as its objective a common goal: reducing energy dependence on various other countries. we are also facing, and i speak for all member states, extreme climate events that can no longer be ignored. building on this, the report adopted today promotes the efficient use of energy and calls on the european commission, together with the member states, to strengthen and promote new technologies that reduce energy losses, to encourage energy renovation programmes for buildings and, not least, the use of energy from renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ much more work is needed on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. energy dependency and energy poverty remain huge challenges, both of which can be partly addressed by improved energy efficiency. i applaud the work of my s&d colleagues on this report and their efforts to provide an analysis of the current situation with an important focus on energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ the european union has undertaken a comprehensive greenhouse gas mitigation process over the past three decades to slow down global warming. thus, between 1990 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23%, while eu gdp increased by 46%. by 2020, the eu's targets include a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency. however, at present the commission estimates that only 17,6% of the energy efficiency target will be reached, which seriously jeopardises the achievement of the 40% target for 2030. the reasons for this include red tape in energy reporting, high levels of energy prices for smes and households and special provisions at national level. in this context, there is a need to clarify the european framework for energy efficiency, as well as a series of measures to boost the replacement of polluting energy with renewable energy at member state level, outside the framework already created by ets certificates. i therefore support the present form of the report.
in writing. britain has voted to leave the eu. we need to start negotiations to leave the union as soon as possible. it's the decision of the british people. i regret this decision, but i respect it and it must be enforced as such. the confusion caused by the delay in triggering article 50 on withdrawal from the bloc is fuelling populist tendencies. confusion is a negative element, which can cause problems both in the uk and in the eu. i think what is needed now is political will and unity. the eu's founding principles must remain sound. free movement cannot be called into question. the 27 member states must speak with one voice. i do not think we can now talk about member states with more integration speeds or member states which are the core of the union. that is why i shall vote against the european parliament's resolution on the uk referendum.
in writing. friday was the saddest day in the history of european construction. the british people voted for brexit, and although it's hard for us to understand, we have to respect the result of the referendum. unfortunately, it was populism and misinformation that influenced this outcome, and it's a shame that the ambition for power of one political leader has led to the economic and political instability that britain is going through now. i am concerned that xenophobia and racism are on the rise in the uk and that both european citizens and non-european migrants can be victims of marginalisation and racial hatred. europe faces two choices: to become stronger or to begin its collapse. we must not forget the international context, the instability in the east, the terrorist threat, and i believe that only a united europe can face these challenges. the european project has brought prosperity, peace and stability to all of europe and, at this turning point, we must bring europe closer to its citizens and fight for a strong europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the decision to leave the eu following the united kingdom referendum because measures must be taken to implement it. the uk must immediately notify its withdrawal from the european union in accordance with article 50 of the treaty on european union so that the eu can set its roadmap. the british people's vote must be respected, even if the effects on them are partially negative. the challenges of the moment highlight the need to reform the union to make it more effective, more ethical and more democratic. i voted for the resolution so that the commission and the council, together with the member states, urgently find the appropriate measures for economic growth, reindustrialisation and security. the eu's core must be strengthened, even if some member states may choose to integrate more slowly or to a lesser extent. it is also necessary to promote common european values and to ensure stability, social justice, sustainability, economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that reiterates the importance for the european union to continue working together after the referendum in the united kingdom to leave the eu. even though the situation is unfortunate, the uk must send the request confirming their desire to leave the eu as fast as possible in order to start the negotiations and prepare the eu and the member states for the new context. therefore the resolution stresses the need for the european union to reform in order to be able to face the current challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the decision of the united kingdom to leave the eu following the referendum of 23 june 2016. the european parliament stresses that the will of the british people must be fully respected, starting with the immediate activation of article 50 of the treaty on european union (teu), and that negotiations must begin immediately after the formal notification. any new relationship between the united kingdom and the eu cannot be established before the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. in view of the critical historical moment for the eu, the interests and expectations of the citizens of the union must be put back at the centre of the debate and the european project must be relaunched. the eu must deliver stability, social justice, sustainability, growth and job creation, overcome persistent economic and social uncertainties, protect citizens and address the challenge of migration. in particular, the development and democratisation of economic and monetary union and the area of freedom, security and justice, as well as the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, are required. reforms must lead to a union that meets citizens' expectations.
in writing. ‒ the resolution was adopted by 395 votes to 200, with 71 abstentions. i was one of the deputies who abstained. i could not vote for it because the resolution, while calling for reforms within the union, is limited to vague statements. in my opinion, the reforms must be radical and must be started now! any delay or delay will only aggravate the crisis in which the union finds itself. also, although the enf group, of which i am a member, submitted several amendments to the text of the resolution, none of them was adopted. i am referring in particular to the amendment which requires that no group of states can take decisions on behalf of other states, thus violating the principle of equality between member states. on the other hand, i could not vote against, because i am convinced that the uk must respect the will of its citizens and start the process of leaving the eu as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution which takes note of the desire of the citizens of the united kingdom to leave the european union and which stresses that the will of the people must be fully and completely respected, starting with the triggering of article 50 of the treaty on european union as soon as possible. we are at a critical moment for the eu, and the interests and expectations of the union's citizens must be brought back into the debate, and the european project must be relaunched now. we cannot afford to create a context conducive to conflict, and we must remember that peace was the most precious gift that this joint project gave us. we must therefore do our utmost to create a stronger and more people-oriented union.
in writing. ‒ i have opted to abstain in this vote on such an important and sensitive issue, as i would have liked the european parliament's position to be more nuanced. i believe, firstly, that the european parliamentary forum should pay more attention to the respect of the rights of european citizens in the uk, especially in the context of the increase in xenophobic-racist abuses and attacks. i call on the british authorities to act firmly in defence of romanian citizens working in the uk, and i am referring in particular to the case of the barbu family, whose children, who are exclusively romanian citizens, were wrongfully given up for adoption by a british couple. as regards the need to reform the eu, i regret the lack of foresight on the part of the competent community institutions and the slow pace of developing appropriate responses to the crises that are assailing the european project. unfortunately, the resolution lists essential common values without offering solutions and timelines for overcoming the decision-making deadlock and lack of vision that are exacerbating the eu's current impasse. i am also concerned about the attempt to officialise the idea of a multi-speed europe, without transparency as to the possible intentions of some member states and without an analysis of the implications for the eu as a whole.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i would like to say from the outset that i also support the report and everything related to quality of life is supported by me. the reporter said we'd have the most exacting standards. is the commission prepared to allow these non-road mobile equipment, to which we are imposing these strict conditions by this report, to be imported from other countries which do not comply with these conditions? does the commission have the instruments in place to do this?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his work, his dedication to this topic of utmost importance and his constructive approach during the negotiations. the text that we are discussing today is the result of hard work and compromise by the vast majority of this house and this attitude speaks for itself. there is no place for petty political arrangements or a populist agenda when it comes to refugees and their integration into our society. not prioritising today would meet not only indifference but also irresponsibility for our society in the future. we should not spare any efforts to ensure a proper social, cultural, linguistic and economic integration of refugees, and we have many reasons to do so. the first should be an understanding of the phenomenon, keeping in mind that we europeans are what we are today as a result of different waves of mass migration. the second one should be humanity. no one under any circumstances wants to live in war. no one wants to leave their homes, families and countries and undertake an exhausting and dangerous journey if they can choose otherwise. it is an act of pure despair and we europeans should stand by our values of humanity and tolerance. the third one is the fact that the integration of refugees is beneficial not only to them, but to our society as well. in the long run, we could compensate demographic the challenges facing our continent, and through recognition of existing skills, language, educational and vocational training, we would be able to match supply and demand on our labour market. therefore, i hope that the report will be voted tomorrow by a large majority of this house, thus sending the right message.
madam president, madam commissioner, social inclusion and labour market integration was a problem in the european union, and we all have to acknowledge that this refugee crisis has gotten us on the wrong foot. the report is all the more important and i will support it and congratulate the young mep for being able to manage such an important issue with all the political groups and to achieve very important things. what worries me is that the commissioner does not want, she has made it clear, to take over some very important things. we cannot integrate refugees and people are people, they have no fault if we don't have budgets for job creation, for supporting smes, for research, because these people need jobs. i am appalled by the attitude of some members of the european parliament, my fellow members, who are extremists, who treat people differently. i belong to a humanist party and i can't conceive of leaving people in pain. i therefore propose that the member states and the commission establish precise rules for the integration of refugees into the labour market and that they have rules for compliance with european and national legislation.
madam president, young and unemployed means a young person who does not have an income, therefore no perspective of buying a house, to start a family, no prospect of investing in their further education to improve their chances for the future. this is why youth unemployment is so important. it is good that we are discussing it today. madam commissioner, two concrete proposals from my side and two concrete questions. firstly, there are member states of the union in which youth unemployment is below 10% and then there are member states in which it is above 30-40%. therefore, i truly believe that we have to do more to improve the exchange of best practices between the member states of the union in order to give the young people of europe the opportunity to be part of the best programmes which exist in europe, be it in their member state or in another member state. therefore, also the question: what is the commission doing in order to improve the exchange of best practices amongst the member states of the union? secondly, we of course have to make sure that this programme generates stable and well-paid jobs. that is why we should in our evaluation go beyond just the quantitative evaluation of these projects –how many jobs were created – but really make sure that these jobs are stable and well paid. my two questions to you are: when will the commission come up with the evaluation of this programme? why has it been delayed? secondly, what is the commission doing to inform eligible young people of these opportunities?
in writing. young people all over europe have very high expectations of us. we are expected to overcome our differences to work in the interest of the younger generation. the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are mechanisms through which direct action can be taken to support young europeans. unfortunately, the results show that only certain countries have implemented these projects. in my country, romania, although the former social democratic government implemented a pilot project on the youth guarantee and developed a coherent strategy in this area, the current technocratic government has forgotten about young people, despite numerous calls from civil society. i therefore wish these projects to continue and be extended by supplementing budgets and integrating the european youth plan proposed by the party of european socialists. we therefore need a comprehensive strategy that includes support for each stage of young people's lives, from education and skills development to finding a job and starting a family, vertically, and horizontally, tackling inequalities, reintegrating excluded young people and providing equal opportunities for young people.
in writing. the youth guarantee scheme was one of the european responses to the depressed labour market situation following the economic crisis, to which member states have committed themselves. it can also be a great tool to do what many have said many times in recent years: bring the eu closer to its citizens, and especially to young people. this is also important because the low level of public interest among young people in all member states and the negative image of the european union have made the european project less popular. this should also be taken into account when implementing the programme: it is a european initiative that directly affects hundreds of thousands of young people. perhaps it is also true that simplifying funding and better communication can bring the eu closer to its citizens, and show a tangible result in dealing with the negative effects of the economic crisis.
mr president, trade is at the core of the european union. controlling a third of world trade, the eu is the largest trading bloc in the world and the largest promoter of human rights through trade, but this is not something we should be complacent about. the new engine of global growth is now in asia, which is also the most dynamic region in world trade. in the future, 90% of global growth in the world will take place outside the eu. this is why, if we want to support jobs in the union and also defend our position as the main promoters of universal values through trade in the world, we have no time to lose. it is absolutely necessary that we revitalise our existing agreements, ratify as swiftly as possible the ones that have already been concluded, and create a more informed political debate on the ones under negotiation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 july 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues (rule 163).
we cannot, we have never asked this question and we are giving the floor to the political groups. someone from the epp spoke, someone from the s&d spoke, someone from the ecr spoke. we continue like this, and then it is the turn of the epp group again, and so on. you are, i believe, the seventh or eighth speaker from the epp. there are more interventions. which is why i'm very sorry, it's a purely technical matter.
mr. president, the outgoing prime minister cameron has played god. in my country, there's a saying: be careful what you wish for, because it might happen to you. in this perspective, the vote in the uk referendum has a deeper meaning. too many politicians are torn by the deep feelings of their own people. the effects of brexit will be of two kinds: short-term and long-term. in the short term, the effects are already visible: excessive agitation, contradictory statements, opinions and disputes. these effects will soon wear off. we have to admit that britain has always had an eccentric status in the european union. so in the european union, the absence of britain will not be felt dramatically. the key question is whether the leaders of the union and all of us will understand the need for a profound change in the architecture and functioning of the european union. if so, then the only way is total, rapid and complete reform of the system. if there is no such reform, and there are no signs that the majority political groups have understood this yet, then the long-term effects will be felt. and the most important is the lack of trust, neither the citizens will trust the union, but neither the politicians will trust each other. the union will be torn apart by perpetuating false and artificial appearances.
mr president, i am a young politician who always fights for a better future for europe. the recent xenophobic outbursts and increased acts of racial violence in the united kingdom – though not only there – are all signs that an old demon is waking up again. racism, xenophobia and radicalisation are driven by economic insecurity and underrepresentation, and are being fuelled all the time by populist politicians who would do anything to win a vote. the leave campaign was a shameful exercise in fear-mongering, but i am convinced that the british did not vote for racism and xenophobia. a handful of racist citizens should never think that they represent the 52% who voted to leave the eu. i call on parliament, the commission and the member states to immediately work with the british government to protect the rights of all eu citizens living in the uk. prejudiced views need to change and people need role models. all of the responsible political parties must take a united european stand against racism and xenophobia. each and every one of us must act. we cannot afford to repeat history.
mr president, i would like to use this possibility to wish happiness and long life to his holiness the dalai lama on the occasion of his 81st birthday in two days’ time. the earthly manifestation of the buddha to tibetan buddhists, his holiness is also a source of wisdom and compassion for many of us here in europe. he is the living example of the spiritual power needed for peaceful resistance. after more than 50 years in exile, he has been consistently calling for non-violent resistance, as the only way to achieve autonomy for his people. this is all the more admirable if we think of all the sufferings tibetans go through. silence is sometimes the best answer, says the dalai lama. however, i am hopeful that in the future this house will not follow this advice when dealing with the mistreatment of his people. this would be the best way to honour the life-long struggle of his holiness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after brexit, 2016 is the year when concepts such as two-speed europe or western and eastern europe must disappear. a first step towards strengthening a homogeneous route of the 27 would be to rethink the distribution of the union institutions in the territory, which would give a clear signal that the union gives equally important roles to all member states. one of the arguments of the anti-europeans, at least in the states that came into the union after 1990, is that the union means the domination of the nations of western europe over the others. the eu's institutions must be distributed evenly across the eu as a first step. in this regard, i would like to make a proposal here: after brexit, romania becomes statistically the sixth nation of the european union. in this context, i believe that the time has come for the european union to show romanians that it has confidence in them and their administrative capacity by relocating the european medicines agency, currently based in london, to romania. in the coming period i intend to generate a legislative proposal in this regard and i hope you will join me, so that together we can give a signal of european unity to both romanians and other nations.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
blue-card question. – thank you so much, dear colleague, for your warm and passionate plea for the eu. i have one short question. how do you assess the collapse of the mainstream political parties in the uk after the referendum, knowing that your party was the only one to fight for europe?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, dear colleague, you have made a shocking statement, at least to me, that you have entered the european union to fight to dismantle it. it's totally unnatural. i ask you, it seems naive to me, do you think that one is stronger than 28? do you think you can influence the european union by leaving the european union?
madam president, mr tusk, mr juncker, as you can see, these debates are almost taken for granted by the two institutions you lead. everyone, regardless of party and political group, says that we need a reform of the european union. otherwise, the european union as it was conceived will be destroyed. i hope today is the last time you ignore what all the political groups have said here. the council also discussed the chronic problems of migration, stimulating economic growth and improving security at eu level. all these issues have become routine somehow, and frankly, i don't expect any spectacular action. the european union is unfortunately going through an acute identity crisis. we are not in a position to make long-term forecasts, but we can say that the leaders of the european union cannot yet present to the citizens a project that would unite the european nations through attractiveness and feasibility.
in writing. mr tusk, mr juncker, you have said that growth and employment are our first concern. i totally agree, but we have to be careful how we do this. we can have concentrated growth and employment in a few countries and a share that would lead to increased regional disparities. this would lead to justified discontent among the citizens of the same europe and the brexit phenomenon could happen again, although it is not good! that is why, mr junker and mr tusk, i wish, on behalf of the citizens of the country i represent, that we no longer have two europe with schengen countries and countries not admitted without good reason, that we no longer allocate the isfs on criteria which are not anchored in the concrete investment needs of europe. you can't keep treating countries two different ways. concrete changes are needed in the way of action, but also in the structure of the measures. more transparency, communication and fairness in the transposition of measures are also needed.
in writing. today, we are again debating the situation created by the brexit referendum. i am very pleased that on friday the european council resisted the blackmail of the british people and took a firm stand on access to the single market, which is strictly conditional on the free movement of persons not being restricted. it is a time when we must put aside all fears and rethink the european project to meet the great challenges of our time. we need political leaders who take responsibility for their decisions, and from now on, when populist leaders hide their own failures by blaming the union for everything that is not working in their countries, we will have to stand up and tell the truth. the european union must become the union of europeans, and reform must not be delayed. now more than ever, citizens need a united, strong europe that is able to face challenges such as youth unemployment, terrorism, limited natural resources, conflicts in the middle east and instability at the eastern border.
mr president, i voted against that resolution and it was shocking to see that three days after that referendum, part of this parliament rushed to tell britain to get out of the european union as soon as possible. i would remind you that the uk alone decides when to submit and whether to submit this request for withdrawal. we must not make decisions based on emotion, as the council representative very well said when we discussed the resolution, but we must wait for the minds to clear up, for the people in britain to negotiate, i repeat, with clear and lucid minds, so that they can stay together, because there is a drama going on. it broke into four or five pieces -- britain -- i mean now the other countries, ireland and the other countries. what's important is the voter signal. voters have told us, not just in britain. we know very well that we have people all over the european union, whose trust in the union has dropped very much. why would you do that? because we are many institutions, because we have excessive bureaucracy, because we have no answers to crisis situations. this is what we need to reform, not, for example, president schulz's proposal, which says: 'in addition to this parliament, let us have another one, made up of national parliaments'. let's reduce, not increase.
in writing. ‒ the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a success for both the eu and peru in terms of deepening relations between the two parties, but also an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement will help boost tourism, but also strengthen trade and investment relations. the opportunity of this agreement also lies in the possibility of a key partnership between the eu and the republic of peru in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking, which may be important areas of cooperation. all these arguments have led me to vote in favour of the report in question.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will strengthen regional coherence, given that peru is one of the minority of latin american countries whose nationals still need a visa, and will have a significant impact on rapprochement between the peoples of europe and peru. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this agreement will deepen the relationship between the european union and the republic of peru and that it is also a way of stepping up economic and cultural relations. i also believe that political dialogue should be intensified on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which will provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement will also improve economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on issues including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relations with latin american countries have been on an upward trend in recent years, which has allowed the development of economic, cultural and political cooperation with this important region of the world. in this context, the eu has concluded agreements on the short-stay visa waiver for the citizens of most of those states. peru is one of the few countries that had not concluded such an agreement until march of this year, when the commission signed the document, with parliament to ratify the move. the signature of the agreement was facilitated by the remarkable progress made by peru in recent years in respecting the values of democracy, good governance, human rights and the rule of law, as well as by strong economic growth and the consolidation of tourism as the country's second economic sector. the fact that the eu is peru's third largest trading partner and largest investor, as well as the country's top export destination, also provides additional reasons for deepening the bilateral relationship. the ratification of the agreement will allow the development of cooperation in sensitive areas such as the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking and human trafficking. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
mr. chairman, i have supported this regulation, i believe it is good for business. as i have spoken to various manufacturers, if there are uniform emission criteria for the whole of europe, it will be clear to the manufacturers of such machines here how it is possible to manufacture these machines and then export them around europe. so this regulation is certainly not against business, but it is for business, because there will be one single regulation for all of europe, instead of 28, or in the future 27 different regulations. i missed one thing in this material yesterday. the material is proof of how, unfortunately, the commission often submits draft regulations of poor quality, which then have to be completely reworked and finalised here in parliament. so on the one hand we must congratulate the rapporteur, but on the other hand we must say that this particular material should be a kind of reminder to the commission that it should do a better job in finalising individual legislative texts in the future and not send in mere torso that then has to be reworked.
mr. president, this report is about reducing pollution and a cleaner environment. 15% of total nox and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union are emitted by machinery used in agriculture or industry, such as the railway industry or even the shipping industry and other industries. the report we voted on today imposes limits on emissions, even from the approval of the engines of these vehicles. we are now finally aligning european legislation with american and japanese laws and regulations, which are much stricter in this area. emergency equipment, such as lifeboats, is exempted from this regulation for a time. it is also important to say that once this agreement comes into force, companies will have 20 years to replace polluting engines. it's a lot, it's a little, i don't know. they have time to do that, and we're not forcing them to invest large amounts of money now. but we should move faster.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on emission limits for non-road mobile equipment contributes to the competitiveness of the european industrial sector by simplifying existing vehicle type-approval legislation, improving transparency and reducing administrative burden. this is expected to reduce the pressure on member states to take additional regulatory measures that could affect the internal market. it also aims to remove barriers to external trade through harmonised rules and by reducing regulatory barriers resulting from divergent emissions requirements. taking into account that one of the objectives of this proposal is to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines for non-road mobile equipment, i have chosen to express my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ several eu urban areas do not meet air quality standards – and the problem is growing as more people move to cities. non-road mobile machinery emits 15% of all nox and 5% of all particulate matter in the eu. studies have shown that these ultra-fine particles are carcinogenic. there must be stricter standards for more engine power ranges, combustion types and fuels to eliminate loopholes in the legislation and to negate the environmental and health damage they do. member states should have the power to prohibit the use of combustion engines for reasons of health and safety, particularly in regions of poor air quality. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation to simplify the current legal framework and address the health concern generated by studies on ultra-fine particles. through this, and by improving the general conditions for enforcement, member states can protect the health and safety of persons working in the vicinity of machinery, by prohibiting the use of combustion engines.
in writing. ‒ i support the non-road mobile machinery proposal, which aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in so-called non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) – a term covering a wide variety of machinery such as construction machines, inland water vessels, trains, chainsaws and generator sets. emissions from nrmm engines represent a significant part of the eu’s total emissions of nox and pm: 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions. this is thus an important piece of source-level air-quality legislation to ensure member states meet their national air quality targets. establishing stricter limits on nrmm emissions is an essential component of the eu’s air-quality policy framework and will help member states achieve the required emission reductions, as proposed in the necd and the ambient air quality directive. the share of total nox emissions in the eu accounted for by nrmm engines is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. at the same time, whilst emissions standards for road vehicles have become more stringent, equivalent measures for nrmm have lagged behind. this is why i believe a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key in order to achieve the union’s air-quality objectives.
in writing. ‒ new data shows that non-road mobile machinery engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are accountable for 15% of the nitrogen oxide and 5% of the particulate matter emissions in the eu, while their share of total emissions in the eu 15 is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. taking this into consideration, a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key in order to achieve the union’s air quality objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which will generally improve air quality following the public health concern created by studies indicating that ultra-fine particles are a carcinogenic substance. the report will strike a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of eu manufacturing industry, with the jobs and know-how it entails.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is the number one environmental cause of premature death in the eu. it causes millions of premature deaths each year worldwide. it has been rightly described as an ‘invisible killer’ - causing heart attacks, strokes, lung cancer, and respiratory disease. we have passed legislation in this parliament to reduce air pollution from major sources, such as road traffic and industrial installations. these legal limits deliver real reductions in pollution and help member states reach their national air quality targets. but the investment needed to improve air quality cannot be made by one or two sectors. cleaning up our air means higher standards in all sectors, including non-road mobile machinery. if the short-term economic costs are shared, the long-term health and social benefits will be much greater. this legislation is another important step in cleaning up our air, to improve our environment and ensure people live longer, healthier lives.
in writing. ‒ reducing pollutant emissions is one of the european union's key environmental policy objectives. a significant part of these emissions comes from internal combustion engines for non-road mobile equipment. this category includes construction equipment, river vessels, trains, dredges and electricity generators. in order to achieve the eu air quality targets, certain limits need to be respected at member state level. the commission's proposal to this end aims to introduce new emission limits to reflect technological progress, to extend the objectives towards harmonising domestic and international markets, to simplify administrative procedures and market surveillance, and to provide transitional periods to enable manufacturers of such engines to adapt their models to the new requirements. transition periods are mainly concerned with emission limits for inland waterway vessels and the obligation to replace transport fleets in urban areas; therefore, generous time limits have been set, which go as far as 20 years. i believe that these are necessary regulations, which take account of the progress made in limiting road pollution and which are aimed at improving the living conditions of european citizens. for that reason, i support the current report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on refugees: social inclusion and integration into the labour market, given that it again does not take into account the capacity of states to receive refugees, and moreover, i appreciate that it was mainly necessary to intensify efforts in conflict zones so that the phenomenon could be stopped. i would point out again that the ability of the member states to fulfil their obligations objectively must be taken into account when we discuss refugee relocations and mandatory quotas. i also believe that efforts should be concentrated in the countries that supply migrants in order to eliminate the causes of this migration phenomenon, since the quota system, whether voluntary or mandatory, is only a temporary solution that only dampens the avalanche for a short period, and is not the final solution to deal with the atrocities of war waged outside the eu's borders.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for the swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and into european societies. i welcome the commission’s work on the common approach to labour market integration and the social inclusion of refugees and i support the call for effective integration policies to be put in place without delay. sufficient financial resources must be allocated in order to guarantee the swift and full integration of refugees into the labour market and their social inclusion in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. integration policies must be part of a holistic approach to migration, improving safe and legal migration channels and ensuring respect for fundamental rights. a common european approach must address key issues such as non-discrimination, access to education and training, housing, health care, labour market and social protection, recognition of qualifications and the validation of skills, as well as family reunification and the situation and needs of vulnerable groups. these are essential measures for restoring the human dignity of refugees, as they enable them to gain economic independence and contribute significantly to their successful integration in the host societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it represents an important step in managing the flow of people arriving on the european continent by implementing measures that take into account both the needs of society and those of the labour market. the identification of effective and fair ways to create the necessary conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and the establishment of a european relocation and transfer mechanism are pressing and highly important long-term issues. the urgency and need for a solution, together with the application of the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, are necessary steps to tackle this common european problem, which requires a common european solution. all such measures should take into account full respect for international law and human rights, in particular with regard to vulnerable groups of migrants - refugees and asylum seekers - in order to ensure their better social inclusion and integration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s work on the common approach to labour market integration and the social inclusion of refugees should be encouraged. there is a need for effective integration policies to be put in place without delay. this will include sufficient financial resources in order to guarantee the full integration of refugees into the labour market in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on refugees - social inclusion and labour market integration, because measures to integrate refugees and asylum seekers into the labour market should not be financed from resources allocated to other european programmes and, by implication, to the detriment of these pre-established programmes. i believe that the labour shortage in some european sectors is not a reason to fund the social inclusion of refugees. european citizens must continue to have priority in the labour market, as required by the principle of community preference. in addition, it should not be lost sight of the fact that the eu continues to face alarming levels of unemployment, especially among young people, and a quarter of the total eu population is facing social exclusion and at risk of poverty. europe must also focus on social investment for its citizens, on more efficient spending of eu funds and on better matching of supply with demand in the european labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, examining the challenges and opportunities for refugees during their social inclusion and integration in the labour market. the report also analyses the development and impact of recent measures, actions and practices.
in writing. ‒ the european union's top priority is its citizens. their safety and well-being must be our primary concern. in recent years, the issue of integration into the labour market has been a constant feature on the union's agenda. whole generations of young europeans, highly educated, are having great difficulty finding jobs for which they are often overqualified. the political ambition to integrate refugees into a market that cannot provide jobs for european citizens is more than an irrational decision, it is an act of indifference to one's own citizens and their needs.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is currently one of the main challenges facing the european union's structures. the different approaches of the member states have led to the aggravation of the crisis due to discriminatory and protectionist tendencies. at european level, however, this crisis could provide a new opportunity for eu development in all areas if the focus of approaches is shifted from the defensive temptation of member states to an inclusive approach. this new approach envisages the adoption of integrationist labour market policies within the union, in order to support legal migration channels and to ensure respect for fundamental rights and non-discrimination. at the same time, access to education and training, housing, healthcare, social protection, recognition of qualifications and family reunification must be guaranteed. the processing of applications for international protection, in particular with regard to vulnerable groups (women, children, persons with disabilities) but also highly skilled persons, needs to be accelerated and undeclared work and exploitation, including with the help of civil society, must be combated. the hostile attitude of society towards refugees serves no one and therefore populist forms of exploiting the fears of citizens of member states should be abandoned and strongly condemned. the document presented here is a correct approach to the problem and has my support.
in writing. ‒ i support the need to implement all recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, which were addressed by parliament to the european commission in 2010. stronger action is needed at european level in this sector, taking into account that the eu has the capacity to make a positive contribution to human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy. at the same time, the link between trade and human rights on the one hand and social and environmental standards on the other has become an integral part of the eu's trade and economic relations. i believe that the eu should use its trade policy to set high global standards in human and social rights, consumer protection and environmental protection, which is why i support this report and vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s trade strategy should be a tool for the promotion of democratic values in third countries. enhanced trade agreements and trade preference programmes could be used to promote human rights, eliminate forced and child labour, ensure food security and the rights to health, sustainable development, high safety and environmental standards, and economic opportunities. it is important for the eu to build cooperation at a multilateral level. there needs to be a more effective cooperation and regular dialogue between the wto and the relevant un agencies and wto trade policy review mechanisms need to be reformed to include the social, environmental and hr dimensions. therefore, i voted in favour of this report that will set human rights, environmental and social standards at both a unilateral and bilateral level. member states should actively promote responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad. by accounting for the impact of trade and investment agreements on vulnerable people and by using trade policy to encourage eu partner countries to adopt higher social and environmental standards, the eu will set a global standard to protect human rights, society and the environment.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, which among other things, calls on the commission to urge for a reform of wto governance, incorporate a gender-sensitive approach, include effective hr clauses in trade agreements, and further involve the ep in decision-making. i support the call for ambitious trade and sustainable development chapters in all trade agreements; for binding corporate social and responsibility standards, focusing on ‘enforcement’ mechanisms; to see civil society organisations and social partners formally involved in the monitoring process; and to support a gender-sensitive approach to trade. social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become of major concern to citizens. this report has raised concerns about the level of ambition the eu has to uphold these. we want to see legally binding and enforceable standards to hold corporations and governments to account, taking on board the important views of civil society.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to see legally binding and enforceable standards to hold corporations and governments to account, taking on board the important views of civil society.
in writing. ‒ the report places sustainable development at the heart of eu trade policy and reaffirms the role of the european parliament in making sure that the goals of the eu in this area remain ambitious and are systematically achieved. the report contains specific recommendations for further measures that could be pursued by the eu at multilateral/wto level, in bilateral trade agreements and unilaterally through the system of trade preferences for third countries. it also calls for systematically addressing eu trade and investment agreements issues like gender equality, tax avoidance or corporate social responsibility. i therefore supported this report that ensures that the european parliament remains engaged in promoting the necessary link between trade and sustainable development and sets the basis for the eu to maintain its leadership in the area of human rights, environmental and social standards.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that reiterates the fact that all religious, racial, ethnic and political groups should be allowed to develop in a single society valuing the diversity among both men and women. this approach should be integrated in eu policies, ensuring a better coherence with regard to development, effective policy assessment and coordination between development aid and trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support this report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. binding corporate social responsibility standards and greater involvement of civil society organisations will deliver better employment conditions and give more credibility to international trade deals. trade policy should bring social and environmental benefits, higher standards for consumers and better conditions for workers. the paragraphs on reform of wto governance, sustainability impact assessments, gender mainstreaming and greater democratic accountability are especially welcome.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a duty to set high corporate social and responsibility standards and the alliance of socialists & democrats has always pushed for ambitious trade and sustainable development chapters in all trade agreements. our group wants to hold corporations and governments accountable and this can only be done through binding and enforceable standards. i support this resolution as it reflects a good compromise on all the main areas. furthermore, this report incorporates notions of gender mainstreaming in all policies, which is a significant achievement and a great step in the right direction.
mr. president, the international trade scene is changing rapidly. the economic importance of the european union has declined, in 2050 it will represent only 15% of world gdp. economic power is moving east. japan will become the world's largest economy by 2025 - that's what economists are predicting. what do we need in the european union to move forward? we need, first of all, innovation, investment in research. without investment in research, nothing will change. industries, new industries, need to re-create themselves, reinvent themselves, but only after they have solutions that only research can provide. so the first thing we have to start from, if we want to grow economically and be competitive, is to invest in research and innovation and then put it into practice.
in writing. ‒ the eu is now the richest economy in the world. unfortunately, according to forecasts by experts, by 2050 the eu28 will account for only 15% of global gdp, down from 23.7% in 2013, so the centre of wealth generation will shift eastwards to the asia-pacific region. in view of this deterioration, i believe that a comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy is urgently needed to provide a boost to economic and trade activities. i support the need for a trade policy that responds to citizens' concerns and at the same time we need more transparency, commitment and accountability to all parties involved. i voted in favour of this report, considering that the eu's trade policy is of major geopolitical and economic importance for europe to shape globalisation, strengthen international standards and improve access to foreign markets.
in writing. ‒ trade negations have brought public attention to european trade policy. while many eu citizens believe globalisation will result in job losses, the contribution of foreign trade to the development of the european economy is important. as wealth shifts eastward, the economic importance of the eu in the world trade scene will decline. it is important for the eu to devise an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy. therefore, i voted in favour of this report so that there will be increased transparency and openness at all stages of trade negations and greater coherence between the eu’s commercial objectives and other aspects of its external policy on trade for development. this will enhance synergies between trade and internal market policies. the opening-up of trade will also lead to higher productivity, increased external competitiveness and brings significant consumer benefits. this future strategy for trade and investment will be a powerful means to strengthen sustainable development, promote human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the report contains parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘trade for all’ communication on its future trade policy. it welcomes the communication as a significant shift towards value-based trade in line with our group’s position but insists that the commission must deliver on its promises. the report reaffirms parliament’s previous recommendations on the ttip and tisa negotiations and its opposition to granting market economy status to china. since it is a horizontal report it does not prejudge any final position by our group on any particular trade agreement or the proposed investment court system. instead it refers to ongoing debates. the report emphasises the need to account for the needs of smes and the manufacturing sector in trade policy which must be in line with a re-industrialisation strategy and smes. it deplores the council’s inactivity on the reform of trade defence instruments. i believe europe needs to be open to trade in the interest of jobs and growth. but that openness needs to be flanked with the right international rules and domestic safety nets to ensure ordinary people can benefit from trade. i support the call on the commission to deliver on its promises on value-based trade and demand that the ttip transparency initiative is extended to all ongoing trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i encourage trade, not as an end in itself, but as a means to achieve prosperity and equality, to promote business opportunities, social progress and cultural understanding, and to increase jobs and raise living standards without increasing public spending. on another note, i believe that the new generation of trade policies must address concerns about transparency and participation, welfare and jobs at the enterprise level in a globalised and interconnected economy. it should provide for measures to combat prosperity and ensure a fairer distribution of trade revenues, addressing issues such as digital trade and the key role of smes in developing a sustainable economy.
in writing. ‒ europe needs to be open to trade in the interest of jobs and growth. we need commitments based on international standards, country-by-country reporting obligations and an automatic exchange of information. we also need the right international rules and domestic safety nets to ensure ordinary people can benefit from trade.
in writing. ‒ the report, adopted on 5 july as a reaction to commission’s communication ‘trade for all’ reaffirms the main themes of the european parliament’s stance on trade, notably the mainstream idea that eu trade should contribute to growth and jobs, promote sustainable development and be consistent with other eu policy objectives. i supported this approach by voting in favour of the report. i welcome in particular the emphasis on specific needs of smes, on the role of recognising professional qualifications in promoting new market opportunities as well as on digital trade and on the need to cooperate with trade partners to fight against corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ on 14 october 2015 the commission proposed the new trade and investment strategy for the eu ‘trade for all - towards a more responsible trade and investment policy’. its goal is to make trade more effective by constantly updating trade policy in order to continue delivering economic opportunities. i have voted for this report that will quickly increase trade liberalisation, further integrating the eu into the global value chains.
in writing. trade policy must contribute to ensuring a transparent production process throughout the value chain and compliance with fundamental social, safety and environmental standards. eu trade policy needs to keep pace with digital and technological trends, as cloud computing, mobile internet services, smart energy networks and online communication platforms are radically transforming the business environment. although services account for 70% of gdp in the eu and will provide 90% of future jobs, the eu's manufacturing industry must be a key component in reindustrialising europe. the strategy for reindustrialising europe must place greater emphasis on the role of this sector in the eu's common trade policy. we urge the commission to work with trading partners to ensure that their markets are more open to eu companies, especially in the fields of transport, telecommunications and public procurement, since their foreign companies still enjoy broad access to the eu's internal market. i voted for the report on an innovative and forward-looking new trade and investment strategy.
in writing. ‒ having the purchasing power of the world’s largest single market gives us the leverage to promote standards and principles to ensure that international trade benefits everyone. trade policy should create opportunities for all businesses, especially small and medium sized enterprises, and not just the large multinationals. negotiations should focus on ensuring that environmental, labour and consumer protection standards are improved rather than undermined. i especially welcome the amendments tabled to this report by my political group on environmental protection, renewable energy, labour standards and gender equality. i urge the commission to adopt these priorities in its ongoing and future trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's leading promoters of free trade. at the same time, however, the european institutions are the main guarantors of the interests of european citizens. when the latter are threatened by international trade, it is the role of the union to propose fair multilateral arrangements to allow free trade in the interests of its citizens. this report seeks to propose a new approach to trading activities at union level, in response to the commission communication of november 2015 entitled 'trade for all'. the main proposals are for more transparency, commitment and accountability to stakeholders, and the design of trade agreements to strengthen the development of human rights, social and labour standards, gender equality and environmental protection worldwide. at the same time, greater attention must be paid to the interests of smes in order to develop a fair policy of reindustrialisation and sensitive agricultural sectors and to combat illegal migration, as well as forced labour and modern forms of slavery. the union's trade policy must also be more closely linked to development policy. this is an important document which will help to increase the fairness of the union's trade policies, which is why i support its adoption.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the own-initiative report on an innovative and forward-looking new trade and investment strategy. i welcome the rapporteur's approach and the fact that she has tried to build a comprehensive report in terms of the objectives the eu should pursue in its trade and investment policy. the report focuses on a transparent trade policy and a stronger voice for citizens, a forward-looking trade policy that takes account of the specific needs of smes, or on creating new market opportunities for european service providers and the recognition of professional qualifications: a key element of the eu's trade strategy. welcomes the request to the commission to monitor, evaluate and follow up existing agreements, and the request to promote global trade through a multilateral approach in the wto.
mr. president, the profits of human trafficking have reached 150 billion dollars. less than 1% of these cases end up in a criminal prosecution and we have a final court decision. that means that less than 1% of cases can be confiscated or victims can be saved. women and girls constitute 79% of the victims of sexual exploitation. men constitute 83% of the victims of forced labour. now let's talk about the children: the director of europol said that in europe, more than 10 000 children, refugees and migrants have disappeared. i voted for this report because states must pay particular attention, particular importance and this must be a priority to register refugees, to follow them, precisely so that they are not stolen, not subjected to human trafficking. in particular, minors, who are a disadvantaged and vulnerable group, are at high risk of exploitation and as such are in the first place to be protected.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of human rights abuse, profoundly and in the long term violating the dignity, integrity and rights of the victim. one of the obstacles to combating trafficking in human beings is the inadequate application of the legal framework at national level, as well as the lack of an appropriate legal framework in third countries. we need european and global action, bearing in mind that this is a problem that transcends borders and is therefore extremely difficult to solve at national level. an estimated 53.8 million people worldwide are trapped in modern slavery, which means that human trafficking is endemic and affects all regions of the world. we cannot afford to be indifferent to this data, we need to react and combat this phenomenon which is constantly expanding. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against all forms of human rights abuse today also concerns trafficking in human beings, one of the most serious acts that profoundly violates the dignity and integrity of human beings. most often, vulnerable persons are victims, through threats or force, of exploitation, whether sexual, reproductive, forced labour, slavery or slavery-like practices. in addition, trafficking in human beings also masks an overwhelming gender problem, as according to the eurostat report for 2015, over 80% of the victims are women. this phenomenon is present everywhere in the world, both in rich states (the destination of many sexual victims, in begging or in illicit transplants) and in developing states (the country of origin of many victims and exploitation through modern slavery). this international criminal activity is a highly developed and profitable business, which seriously violates human dignity. i believe that states should make efforts and cooperate closely to change traffic from a low-risk, high-profit business to a high-risk, low-profit business. the eu's external role in combating trafficking in human beings is crucial and this report strengthens legislation in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the global trends in trafficking of human beings; it also underlines that the trafficking is a highly lucrative business and that the proceeds from this criminal activity are largely re-injected into the global economy and financial system. the rapporteur reports on the different forms of exploitation, the victim’s rights including the right to remedy, the cooperation against trafficking in human beings at regional and international level and the eu policy in its external relations. moreover, the report makes a clear link between trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report talks about different forms of exploitation, the victim’s rights including the right to remedy, the cooperation against trafficking in human beings at regional and international level and the eu policy in its external relations. one major problem underlined in the report is that the level of international co-operation is insufficient on cases of trafficking in human beings, particularly where countries of origin and countries of transit are involved. the report indicates that the eu should develop a regional approach, concentrating on the so-called ‘trafficking routes’ and should offer responses which are adapted to the type of exploitation in the different regions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that denounces and rejects human trafficking. the report stresses that human trafficking is a modern kind of slavery, a serious and transnational crime of global nature, calling for measures aimed to fight its root causes through robust laws against as well as improved cooperation between countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that human rights are universal and must be defended worldwide. in this regard, as stated in the document adopted today, the fight against trafficking in human beings must be a priority for the european union and its partners. i welcome the proposal in the report to step up cooperation between the european union, the member states and third countries to investigate and combat trafficking networks. last but not least, i appreciate that the report encourages the european commission and the member states to adopt legislation on organ transplantation requiring the provenance of these organs to be known, in order to prevent and stop illegal procurement practices.
in writing. ‒ an estimated 35.8 million people worldwide are trapped in modern slavery, and that is a shameful number. recently, 10,000 migrant children have been reported missing and presumably ended up in prostitution rings. a few blocks from the european parliament, on brussels' famous avenue louise, illegal prostitution has been running for years, unfettered. it is unacceptable that this is ignored by the belgian authorities. at the same time, websites promoting child pornography are tolerated in europe. this issue has been shrouded in secrecy for too long and we can no longer accept this phenomenon in silence! international cooperation in trafficking cases is insufficient, especially when it comes to countries of origin and transit, which is a major impediment to effectively combating trafficking in human beings. action is needed now to save human lives, now, not tomorrow!
in writing. ‒ when we talk about trafficking in human beings, there is always some financial gain in the network of criminal organisations involved in trafficking in human beings. in the current migration process, there is also a huge financial benefit for traffickers, who are often more organized than state authorities and who send migrants seeking a better life to more developed regions in exchange for large sums of money compared to eastern european wages and savings. unfortunately, the suspicion that the authorities of certain third countries are cooperating with these criminal organisations in order to prevent large groups of migrants from remaining on their territory and crossing into europe has not been dispelled. in these circumstances, it is indeed difficult to explain to european citizens that while we are talking about action against trafficking in human beings, we are also working closely with those states that support and facilitate this process. so i think that breaking the business model of human traffickers can be achieved with one tool, consistently protecting the external borders.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is one of the most abhorrent practices that still persists in the contemporary world. unfortunately, there is a significant level of funds involved in this area and then they enter the international financial system and the global economy. despite measures taken by the world's states, this type of trafficking manages to be predominantly cross-border, affecting a large part of developing countries. at the same time, human trafficking also involves a number of migrants who try to make their way to developed countries but are exploited by traffickers. in these circumstances, the european union has a duty to act to strengthen international cooperation in order to combat this phenomenon of organised crime and to protect the victims resulting from this process. the current report identifies problems in this area and considers that eu policy to combat trafficking in human beings must be an integral part of the union's external policy. only in this way can the union gain the necessary credibility at global level as a relevant actor in stopping this type of phenomenon. i support the adoption of this important document for the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on combating trafficking in human beings in the context of the eu's external relations. the rapporteur calls on the eu and its member states to adopt a human rights-based and victim-centred approach and to place victims and vulnerable populations at the centre of all efforts to combat, prevent and protect victims of trafficking in human beings. the report also shows that trafficking in human beings, as a form of organised crime, occurs at both external and internal borders, thus requiring strong national legislation against trafficking in human beings as well as cooperation between countries. the same document denounces human trafficking as a highly profitable business, with the proceeds of this criminal activity being largely reintroduced into the global economy and financial system.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. madam president, commissioner, you said that for the first time the budget is smaller than the previous one. you're right. i know. let's not forget who forced this budget cut. he's not with us anymore, or he finally doesn't want to be with us anymore, so you should be taking some steps in that direction. obviously there's a lot of things to do. there is a system, a flexibility instrument, as you said, introduced by parliament. i think you have to use it to the fullest, so that this figure, which is very small, is used 100 percent. normally, extraordinary things, extraordinary events should be extra-budgeted, that is, member states should come up with extra money, with other money, because it was not foreseen from the beginning. at the same time, remember that these are the decommitments for 2007-2013 and the decommitments that will now come for the current mff. please keep this in mind and the money that needs to be deactivated to stay in the budget.
blue-card question. – you mentioned all these challenges. there are so many challenges at the same time in the european union – brexit being the latest one, besides unemployment, terrorism, investment shortfall, refugees, migration – which you mentioned. do you not think it is the moment to call on the commission for a total reform of the resources and payment plan, because we cannot continue in this way?
madam president, we have all agreed that the current multiannual financial framework (mff) has shown its limits. the current mff cannot cope with unexpected developments, firstly because it is not flexible enough, and secondly because it is built on the priorities of the years 2012-2013. it is only thanks to the european parliament’s commitment to more flexibility that the eu budgetary system has not yet collapsed. my view is that the member states have to realise that, if we want a strong response to the current challenges which we are facing, we need adequate financing at eu level. i have two concrete proposals: firstly, we need an upward revision in ceilings in heading no 3; and secondly – and i believe this is really essential – we need to repeal the provision in the mff regulation that stipulates that the contingency margin has to be offset. what does this mean? this provision means that every time we mobilise this margin we decrease the budget in other areas. we all have to understand that new priorities have to be financed with new funds – with fresh money.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the current political and economic context, the multiannual financial framework is becoming an indispensable reference point for implementing and maintaining the financial budgetary policies of the european union. that is why i believe that its main objective must be to strengthen cohesion policy. this means funding instruments and budget lines that lead to greater european integration, reducing development gaps, tackling illegalities and supporting new technologies and research. we europeans must understand that the expectations are very high from the citizens we represent. young people expect the european union to solve the problem of unemployment. the entrepreneurs want us to budget for incentives. local authorities are hoping for development funds, and seniors want more social protection, while everyone else certainly deserves a better life. we need to get out of the shell of bureaucratic rhetoric and show all europeans that money is being used transparently, constructively but above all in their interests. so beyond the revision and the nice words, i expect the european commission and the council to wake up and understand that we have to work together and properly finance the european project.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, many thanks to all those who have taken part in a very serious debate today. i have listened very carefully and i want to start from the recognition that came from many of you that we have a new budget for a reason, and the reason is that in the eu we have invented one of the best achievements of the 20th century, the convergence engine that enables us to lift up regions and countries that are falling behind and, in so doing, to benefit everybody. we do that with the internal market, but of course the budget is the fuel for this convergence engine. for it to work we have to make sure that we spend our money carefully so that we can get the highest impact. let me sum up some of the key messages that i have got from the debate today. first, there is a very clear recognition that the world is changing, but our budget has not been designed to offer the necessary flexibility. we have to use the mid-term review to see how we can do better in terms of aligning the budget with the priorities in a fast-moving world. secondly, we recognise that, when it comes to that alignment, there are certain priorities that we have to concentrate on, as otherwise our citizens would not forgive us: how can we get more jobs, especially for our young people; how can we get more innovation to generate smes that push europe forward in competitive terms; how can we get a more hopeful, youthful europe, without which, i think, we would all be very depressed. i have listened to the conversation here and it is a bit depressing, if we are to be very honest with ourselves, so we have to concentrate on ways of using the budget to lift up our europe, especially the young people of europe. secondly, how do we deal with the migration crisis? it is going to be with us. it moves from one place to another, but in a world that is, unfortunately, so severely undermined by conflicts and violent extremism, given the geography which we have in europe there are no walls that can be built to stop the flow of people. of course we have to protect our borders better. we also have to find more equitable, fairer, and more dignified ways to accommodate the migrants flowing into europe. thirdly, there is a very clear desire for our budget also to play the role of flag-bearer in addressing great global challenges such as climate action. if we are not strong on that front we would be undermined all because of the extreme weather that comes with unmitigated climate change. and the good news is that we have achieved over 20%: 20.3% of the budget is to be spent on climate action. of course, we have to do more. the same applies to our role internationally when it comes to dealing with conflicts and the stabilisation of fragile countries. so in your next very clear message you turn to us and say look, we have all these demands. prioritise. we will need your help to prioritise. given the limitations of the budget, not everything can be funded on an equal footing. there are old priorities and new priorities. we will have to be very disciplined in aligning our budget with them. looking to the future, we will have to modernise the budget significantly, and modernisation is not only on the expenditure side. i want to thank mr arthuis for reminding us that we have to sort it out and be more systematic. there also has to be modernisation on the revenue side. obviously the monti group is there to help us, and we have to have the guts to come up with proposals that give us a modern budget. last but not least, the budget also has to be modern in terms of the rules and procedures that we apply for the use of money and it has to be simplified. in the past every effort to simplify things would start out with great ambition, and then we would all come along, – including, with all due respect, members of parliament – and add our bells and whistles so that by the time we were done, things, instead of being simple, had been made more complex. we have a unique opportunity. in the next six months we need to dedicate ourselves to making best use of this opportunity to have a modern budget that serves us to the utmost. i look forward to our cooperation in these next months.
in writing. the report contains many proposals that i support, such as financial allocations for agriculture. but there are also proposals that i will not support because they disadvantage the less developed eu member states, such as romania. i therefore disagree with the allocation of immigrants on the basis of mandatory quotas and, consequently, with the proposed system of financial penalties for those who do not respect the quotas. i also believe that member states should not be penalized by recycling the funds from decommitments, but on the contrary supported to absorb the funds allocated from the eu budget in full.
madam president, i welcome again the european commission's initiative to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. but we have to admit here in the european parliament that tax evasion would be much less if individuals and companies had nowhere to hide their income and wealth. the european commission has committed to publishing the blacklist of tax havens that do not want to cooperate, transmitting the necessary information to the countries where these individuals and companies are located who hide their income and wealth in tax havens. we are waiting for this blacklist and i think that in the european union, all financial transfers to these tax jurisdictions that do not want to become transparent should be taxed.
mr president, we are finally responding to a crisis faster than usual. i remember that the pnr lasted three years in this parliament, which is why i am surprised that colleagues complain that we moved too fast. yes, we must move quickly, defend our external borders and regain the trust of the citizens of the union. the report we are finally voting on tomorrow and i am glad we are voting on it provides for the strengthening of the union's external borders through several issues: a corps of permanent and reserve border guards from the member states, which will be around 1 500 people and who will be posted at the external borders of the union; frontex is also the border agency will finance the training of border guards who are part of the rapid reaction force. the union will pay over eur 260 million in 2016 and over eur 300 million in 2017.
mr president, in the context of the extension of frontex's mandate by developing the new european border and coast guard system, the romanian authorities have shown their openness to contribute with sustained efforts to maintaining the security of the internal and external borders of the european union and to manage the flow of migrants competently. romania will thus contribute 75 police officers to the reserve capacity for rapid intervention of 1 500 personnel. to date, romania is providing one of the most important contributions in this area, including in operations in the aegean and mediterranean, by deploying vessels and personnel in monitoring and rescue operations. romania also has the capacity to monitor and manage vulnerabilities that may arise in the black sea through the scomar system and has concluded readmission agreements with turkey and serbia. finally, i would like to address the council and tell it that, in view of my country's contribution to this effort, the member states will decide to accept romania, croatia and bulgaria into schengen immediately.
madam president, it was no wonder that frontex struggled to make a difference last year when eu member states were failing under the weight of the migrant flow. due to its design shortcomings, a weak mandate and the lack of its own equipment and staff, the current frontex is little more than a paper tiger. although the pressure on the eu borders has subsided for the moment because of the eu-turkey agreement, this situation can change at any time. that is why i am pleased that today we have this proposal in front of us on a border agency with more authority, more means and more power to intervene in the event of disproportionate pressures at our external borders. i would like to commend the speed at which the negotiations on this regulation advanced, as well as the modifications that make the proposed agency both more efficient, in responding to migration and the internal security challenges, as well as more accountable.
madam president, commissioner, as has already been said here, a high common level of network and information security in the european union is a necessity. i would like to congratulate mr schwab, mr nicola and all the other rapporteurs on their work over the past three years and finally, as a result of the negotiations, we have a compromise text which we hope will bring about improvements and concrete measures to improve security. it's certainly not a perfect document, because there's still room for improvement, but we have enough to go around to the idea that we have a good report and a good future directive. i think it's a balanced ratio, that takes into account data protection and the need for interstate communication of information and network security. a high common level of security in the union is a necessity. the fact that this directive provides for obligations for member states in relation to the prevention and management of risks affecting networks and information systems is also a good thing. in this form of the report, the directive clarifies the way in which strategic cooperation between member states is carried out by a cooperation group composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and the european union agency for network and information security. the directive lays down obligations for operators of essential services and digital service providers. i support this report and congratulate my fellow rapporteurs. i think we have taken an important step, we are going to see how it is implemented in practice in each member state and, of course, we are going to see the effects of the application of this directive. thank you very much and we hope that the schwab report will be voted on in this form.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for mentioning the extreme light infrastructure (eli) project, not only because he inspired me to completely change my speech, but also for mentioning that there is a successful story in europe where the synergies between structural investment funds and horizon 2020 create miracles. the eli project is now being developed in hungary, the czech republic and romania. the project is not only the largest and the most advanced complex to be developed in eastern europe, but is at the same time the most advanced and fundamental research in the world. this will change the destiny of europe, transforming it into a leading power in the physics of high-powered lasers. the eli project in romania, in magurele, will host up to 600 researchers from all the eu member states and the rest of the world and will transform into something similar to cern. this is why i welcome the synergy and i welcome synergies and union being spoken about in my country. this is good because we have an example.
madam president, the european union must be more concerned than ever with identifying mechanisms and levers to express european solidarity and, at the same time, to reduce economic and social disparities between member states. cohesion policy as a whole is the instrument at the disposal of the union to achieve these important objectives. beyond flexibility and adaptation to new realities, it is important to further strengthen synergies between the five structural funds, but also with other important programmes in the field. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. last but not least, simplification of procedures, clear rules for the application of financial instruments and, above all, transparency in the allocation of these funds must be a priority for the commission. this should be a guarantee that the funds will be equally accessible to all member states.
member of the commission. – madam president, this has been a very interesting discussion – i would say because of three points. the first is that we all agree on the importance of synergies in terms of having better science and better innovation. the second is that we agree that we have delivered on various projects and instruments, and the examples speak for themselves. thirdly, we also agree that we have to do much more, that this is ongoing work, teamwork that we have to keep doing, and it involves parliament, the commission, the various services, the people and the national governments, and we will keep doing it. we need more synergies in order to think really out of the box, and to be able to create different instruments to deliver different results. you have my commitment and that of commissioner crețu that we will keep on working very hard on delivering more of the kind of examples we have talked about today. but we need your help, and i am extremely glad of all the support, all the examples cited and all the questions. so rest assured that all the points raised here today we will feed into our work and our thinking. thank you for all the ideas that came up, which complement our own ideas and are a way of getting us all together in the same boat. thank you all for the discussion.
in writing. to deliver on research and innovation policies, in january 2014 the eu launched its largest research and innovation programme, horizon 2020, which brings all funding together in an integrated programme. on the other hand, horizon 2020 is also the first programme to make explicit reference to the need for synergies with european structural and investment funds, such as the competitive operational programme in romania. it is a good sign to hear that among the initiatives proposed, the commission wants to extend existing synergies and the marie skłodowska-curie actions would be a good start. why would you do that? because the programme provides grants for all stages of the career of researchers (either phd students or experienced researchers) and encourages transnational, cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary mobility; it allows research-oriented organisations (universities, research centres and enterprises) to host talented foreign researchers and to create strategic partnerships with leading institutions around the world. today is therefore the right time to develop synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020 in current programmes and smart specialisation strategies, and i welcome the commission's intention to deepen existing synergies and to start new ones, such as clean sky.
madam president, there is no doubt that 316 national authorities and intergovernmental structures are not accustomed to cooperating and exchanging information effectively in order to achieve the purpose for which they were created. the current formula proposed by the commission, whereby the european fisheries control agency and the european maritime safety agency cooperate with the newly created european border and coast guard agency, is an experiment in trying to strengthen cooperation, certainly with difficulties, in my opinion, in the first phase, as the agency that will benefit from these services from the two specialised agencies, with tradition and efficiency in their field of interest, is in dire need. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights (the 'european agency for fundamental rights') and its activities in the field of justice and home affairs. the exchange of information, the possibility of electronic reports or high-tech vessel monitoring, the expertise in combating illegal fishing in the protection of the marine environment will be effective and useful for the newly created agencies but certainly, where appropriate, the other two agencies will also be involved in the management of the risks we face, risks related to migration and risks related to the security system.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i know that some of your colleagues in the political group do not want europe. the rest of us, however, want the european union. do you not think that the slovak presidency should, in addition to the programmes that the prime minister has presented, include in the programme a single europe, not schengen and non-schengen, we should have a single border of the european union?
mr president, mr prime minister, slovakia is taking over the presidency of the council in a double crisis - the one created by refugees and the one created by brexit. it's not going to be easy to implement what you've said here. we need social policies, putting people at the centre of the action, focusing on social cohesion, reindustrialisation, better trade defence of the internal market. i think you need to show firmness in the application of the measures, but also better communication and transparency. i would like, as a romanian, to support the urgent entry of romania, bulgaria and croatia into schengen and to create a single european space, with well-secured borders, so that we no longer have, of course, two europeans with two speeds. we need investments that lead to real social cohesion, to a europe with citizens who have a similar quality of life.
in writing. ‒ the eu-azerbaijan framework agreement aims to cooperate in key areas to develop relations between the two parties. this protocol is intended to regulate the financial and technical rules to facilitate the participation of azerbaijan in certain programmes for third countries. this agreement constitutes a concrete action within the framework of the neighbourhood policy to strengthen relations and partnership between the european union, on the one hand, and azerbaijan, on the other. it should be noted that azerbaijan is an important partner in the energy sector and, not least, in the other key areas. i believe that this partnership needs to be governed by the union's values and the fundamental principles of respect for human rights and freedoms and the rule of law. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i consider it important to strengthen partnerships with third countries with a view to bilateral cooperation and improving the socio-economic situation both within the european union and in azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ the eu's main instrument in the azerbaijan area is the european neighbourhood policy (enp). particular interest is shown in the region's energy transit and production potential, in the context of an increasingly pronounced eu dependence. the eu and azerbaijan have conducted negotiations with a view to cooperation and compliance with financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. a framework agreement between the european commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan on the terms and conditions specific to each project will also be established. i support this recommendation of the ep as i consider this arrangement an important step towards strengthening cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan. the eu needs to adopt a clear and coherent policy towards third countries in order to be able to respond to the serious problems faced by civil society organisations and actors. in this regard, reforms to strengthen the rule of law and human rights shall be supported.
in writing. ‒ one of the european neighbourhood policies, introduced in 2006, provides for the gradual opening up of certain union programmes to the countries covered by this policy. in october 2012, azerbaijan expressed its interest in participating in the union programmes. to date, such protocols have been signed with armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine. i voted to promote and develop eu-azerbaijan cooperation, not only in the energy field, but also to provide support to the people of this country to overcome the great difficulties they face.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation and i agree with the rapporteur's position. i consider that the adoption of the recommendation on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan is beneficial for both parties.
in writing. ‒ parliament has expressed concerns in the last months about the increasing difficulties civil society actors and organisations face. rule of law, human rights and democracy remain core principles on which relations of the eu with third countries should be based. in this context, the framework agreement under consideration aims to promote cooperation in sectors and foster people-to-people contacts which should be beneficial for society. i therefore gave my consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the partnership between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the general principles for its participation in union programmes. it aims to establish financial and technical rules and standards imposed on azerbaijan in order to benefit from certain european union programmes targeting third countries. i voted in favour of this report to support the promotion of cooperation in key areas and the encouragement of people-to-people contacts in support of society.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation that will enable azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions of azerbaijan’s participation will be determined for each particular programme in an agreement between the commission and the competent authorities from azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which i coordinated as lead rapporteur, because i believe that the european union's bilateral relations with its external partners are extremely important for the economic development of european countries. continuing the dialogue between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan is of particular importance for the energy security of the european union and can be a development opportunity for romania, a country that can guarantee the security of energy transit, but also a qualified workforce for the construction of gas pipelines and their subsequent supervision. on the other hand, the protocol will allow azerbaijani citizens, students or researchers, to participate in european programmes open to third countries, within the framework of the development of the eu's european neighbourhood policy, programmes in which eastern partnership countries such as armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine are already taking part.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years made its relationship with partner countries a priority under the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. one of those countries is azerbaijan, which is one of the union's key partners in the south caucasus region, in particular in the field of energy security. over the past decade, this country has experienced spectacular economic development, with significant oil and natural gas reserves. in this context, deepening the union's cooperation with azerbaijan could contribute to the realisation of joint investments in areas of common interest, including in third countries. the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the two parties would allow azerbaijan to participate in a number of union programmes, which would be beneficial for the achievement of the eu objectives. at the same time, the signing of this protocol could be a first step towards addressing the difficulties faced by independent civil society organisations and actors in azerbaijan, the rule of law, respect for human rights, territorial integrity and democracy in this key eu partner state in the region. in these circumstances, i support the adoption of the present recommendation, which is an important step towards the realisation of the necessary strategic partnership between the eu and azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-azerbaijan framework agreement, the objective of the protocol being to establish financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan in each programme will then be established in an agreement between the european commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. the eu-azerbaijan agreement entered into force on 1 july 1999 and since 2010 the two sides have been negotiating for the renewal and upgrading of contractual relations in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, of which azerbaijan is a member.
in writing. ‒ given that a surplus of eur 1 349 million was left over from the financial year 2015, this project aims to enter this amount in the budget for 2016. the surplus is a consequence of under-spending of eur 187 million, but also a positive result from the execution of revenues of eur 980 million. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. however, it cannot be denied that at the beginning of this year, member states had a considerably smaller contribution to the funds for the financial crisis, compared to almost double the contributions from the union. i voted in favour of adopting draft amending budget no 2/2016 as i consider it to be an opportunity for member states to meet their financial commitments.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will reduce the level of member states' contributions to the union budget in 2016 by eur 1 349 million. member states could use the opportunity offered by such a return to meet their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and to contribute at the level of the union to the two union trust funds set up for that purpose. i voted in favour of the union budget being able to reuse any surplus resulting from the under-utilisation of appropriations or fines imposed on companies for breaching union competition law to meet its financing needs, in particular in the context of payment appropriations deficits.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 2/2016 is intended to enter in the budget 2016 the surplus of eur 1.3 billion resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2015, and diminishes accordingly the global contribution of the member states to the financing of the 2016 eu budget. i support the call on the member states to use the opportunity of this reflow to honour their pledges in relation to the refugee crisis and to match the union contribution to the two dedicated union trust funds. it believe that instead of adjusting the gni contribution, the union budget should be enabled to reuse any surplus resulting from under-implementation or from fines imposed on companies for breaching union competition law in order to deal with its financing needs, especially in the context of payment shortages.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending report to the budget no 2/2016 of the european union on the recording of the surplus for the financial year 2015, which, if adopted, would reduce by eur 1 349 million the level of member states' contributions to the union budget in 2016. this is an opportunity for member states to fulfil and honour their commitments to the european union on funds specifically earmarked for the refugee crisis. this report shall provide for the reuse of surplus resulting from under-utilized credits or fines imposed on companies for infringements of union competition law. they would be consistent with financing needs, in particular as regards payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that is devoted solely to the budgeting of the 2015 surplus which amounts to eur 1 349 million.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the european union is the main instrument through which the european institutions implement their policies in the various fields of activity. it is designed to ensure the smooth functioning of the union and its development programmes, based on past experience and forecasts made by the specialised community bodies. the union budget allocated for 2015 has a budget surplus of eur 1 349 million, which will contribute to the reduction of the member states' contribution to the community budget. this will support member states' commitments to the refugee crisis, the syrian crisis and support for african states. the report proposes using surpluses from under-utilization of credits or fines imposed on companies for breaches of competition law to cover shortfalls from payment credits. i believe that any surplus in the union budget must be redirected to programmes that put the interests and well-being of european citizens first. i therefore support the adoption of this document.
madam president, i have supported this report by mr schwab, whom i congratulate on the outcome. i believe that the question of today's internet society cannot be avoided without ensuring network and information security. and it's clear that this is a problem that individual countries cannot solve individually, because the internet knows no national borders, and it's appropriate that the individual national authorities in the individual 28 countries work together and exchange information. and this material that we've received is going in that direction. we are not introducing a new authority, we are not introducing a new regulation, but we are more or less saying that the different national authorities responsible for information security will exchange information and cooperate with each other. and that has its logic and is the right thing to do in my view and it strengthens the principles of the internal market.
madam president, power plants, airports, road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, all of it needs to be protected against cyber attacks. a cyber attack in these areas cripples and threatens a country and its national security. that is why we need contingency plans for cyber threats and in this context i do not think it is appropriate to publish a list of critical infrastructure in the member states. the report raises the security level against cyber attacks, which is very good. member states now need to coordinate in the event of cyber threats. we're interdependent, the internet is a network that we all have access to. we must respond and defend ourselves together.
in writing. ‒ i support the nis directive, which represents the first eu-wide legislation on cyber-security. its main objective is to improve security in the eu online environment and to strengthen cooperation among member states and european institutions in this field, overcoming the current fragmentation. the nis directive will improve cybersecurity capabilities in member states, improve their cooperation in this field and require different operators of essential services in important sectors of society, as well as providers of key digital services, to take appropriate security measures and report incidents to the national authorities. i welcome the agreement reached on 7 december 2015 with the council and i believe it will deliver important benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation regarding measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the eu.
in writing. ‒ the directive on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union aims to improve online security in the eu and to strengthen cooperation between member states and the european institutions in this area. the directive lays down obligations for all member states with regard to the prevention, management and response to risks and incidents affecting network and information systems. it establishes a cooperation mechanism between member states to ensure uniform application of this directive throughout the union and, where necessary, coordinated, efficient and effective management and response to risks and incidents affecting network and information systems. it also lays down security requirements for market operators. the resilience and stability of networks and information systems are essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and this directive plays a major role in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concludes the process of adopting the directive on measures for a common level of security of network and information systems in the european union. in the context of the development of the digital market and the increasing number of cyber attacks, i believe it is essential that the eu, through joint action by member states, enhances the security of its digital information and critical infrastructures such as energy and transport. this directive requires member states to improve their level of preparedness and cooperation to ensure a secure digital environment in which eu values and citizens' rights are respected and protected, including in the digital area. i believe that, in the context of romania's digital development, the security of these networks is essential to increase the confidence of users of the various online platforms that they are protected and their data is safe.
in writing. ‒ the security of the member states is a prerogative that has remained the preserve of national institutions, but the coordination of strategies can also be achieved at european level. a key component of european security is currently ensuring a high level of cybersecurity. following lengthy negotiations at institutional level, the commission has arrived at an optimal formulation of a directive for a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. this is the first eu-wide legislative measure on cybersecurity, aimed at strengthening security in the european online environment and cooperation between member states and european institutions in this area, to overcome the current fragmented approach. the adoption of this directive will support the regulation of the information space in accordance with common standards and mechanisms. this is a significant step forward in this very vulnerable area which urgently needs to be secured for the benefit of european citizens, consumers and economic operators. i consider this to be an important step forward and i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union directive on network and information security aims to enhance cooperation on cybersecurity in the member states and to establish harmonised rules at european level to eliminate the current differences between national systems. this requires the establishment of national cooperation strategies and plans, the establishment of competent authorities in the field of network and information security and cyber-emergency response teams at national level. furthermore, they must provide for cooperation and coordination arrangements with other member states. providers of basic services such as energy, transport, financial markets, health and even the food supply chain, or those providing digital services such as search engines, will be required to take measures to improve their ability to withstand cyber-attacks and to notify serious cases of network and information security breaches, taking immediate action to ensure information security. i therefore voted in favour of the report on a high common level of network and information security in the european union.
madam president, by 2030, the union must increase energy efficiency by 27%. we are moving towards this goal on several levels: we are using renewable energy and we are trying to break free from unhealthy relations, from energy dependence, especially with the russian federation. for people, energy consumption has become very important, so they are careful when buying household appliances to how much they consume these products. that is why the energy consumption of household appliances must be indicated on the label. i know that the industry is concerned that a major change in energy labeling could have a negative impact on producers and consumers, but about consumers, i say one thing -- people are smart and they have the ability to discern and they decide what they buy.
in writing. ‒ this legislative initiative is fundamental to the 2030 climate and energy policy framework, replacing directive 2010/30/eu on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products. the current legislative proposal brings significant improvements and is essential to achieve the objectives of moderating energy demand. i have always been a supporter of labelling measures because i believe it is a sign of respect and transparency towards consumers, who can thus obtain accurate data on what they are buying. energy labelling provides citizens with a thorough understanding of the environmental impact of products, while also providing citizens with the opportunity to compare products based on energy efficiency and cost criteria, thus enabling them to make cost-effective and environmentally responsible decisions. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that energy labelling is beneficial both for the environment, generating energy savings, and for consumers, and, not least, it is appropriate for improving the free movement of products, encouraging competitiveness and innovation.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is crucial for achieving the climate targets we accepted in paris last year at the un climate cop 21 conference, and is essential to reduce eu dependence and improve energy security. energy efficiency labelling allows consumers to make informed choices with regard to efficient and sustainable energy-related products. if we succeed in improving our energy efficiency we will also succeed in overcoming our dependency on expensive energy imports and we will achieve environmental sustainability. a binding target to increase our energy efficiency by 40% for 2030 will save money for our industries and citizens. on the one hand it is crucial to fully implement existing eu legislation to reach our 2020 targets, and some member states still need to do their homework. on the other hand, we need to start working on the future now. we are expecting ambitious proposals, with strong binding targets, from the commission this autumn.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report establishing a common framework for energy efficiency labelling to ensure access to information in real time. it will help to strengthen the monitoring of market and legislative developments in this field, and to increase the efficiency of our 'safety mechanisms'. this database will be a driver of change that is absolutely indispensable to citizens, it will restore consumer confidence in using and accessing this platform that has all the relevant and necessary information, similar platforms having been found and created many years ago in the usa, china and australia.
in writing. ‒ the new energy efficiency labelling proposal sets up binding new rules regarding the a to g energy efficiency scale of household appliances. the report demands the simplification of the current labelling system, relevant energy efficiency information on labels and advertisements, real-life testing conditions and transparent information for customers. i voted in favour of this resolution that advocates a safe and clear labelling system that keeps pace with technological progress allowing customers to achieve higher energy savings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on energy efficiency labelling that establishes a framework for labelling and consumer information regarding energy consumption for energy-related products.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency labelling enables consumers to make informed choices about energy-efficient and sustainable products. this makes a significant contribution to energy savings and lower energy bills, while promoting innovation and investment to support the manufacture of increasingly energy efficient products. the energy efficiency labelling regulation amends and improves certain provisions in order to clarify and update their content, taking into account the rapid technological progress made in recent years with regard to the energy efficiency of products. i think it is important that member states can create incentives for the use of energy-efficient products. increased attention should be paid to the accessibility of low-income households to energy-efficient products, thereby contributing to the reduction of energy poverty. i would stress that the european union is committed to building a robust energy union and a forward-looking energy and climate change policy. energy efficiency is a crucial element of the european union's 2030 framework for climate and energy policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation on energy efficiency, because today's vote sets out how the reclassification of products in the internal market of the european union from the perspective of energy efficiency will proceed. i also appreciate that this regulation creates a database for informing consumers about health and environmental issues at european level, which the european union does not have at present.
in writing. ‒ respect for the rights of european consumers is one of the priorities that the european institutions must take into account. in these circumstances, it is very important that the labels of products offered on the market in the member states comply with certain regulations established at european level. one of these regulations concerns energy efficiency labelling. the commission has had a directive on this since 2010, but it has been outdated by technological advances in recent years and needs to be revised. what is essential is to provide citizens with information on the environmental impact of the product and its life cycle. the energy classes currently defined on the a to g scale need to be redefined to take account of innovations in the field. this will, however, only be possible after a longer conversion period of at least 5 years. this will also allow the development of a new database of products on the european market, capable of competing with databases already existing in other parts of the world. i think that this is a necessary revision, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ strengthening cooperation between national agencies and authorities performing the coast guard function is vital for the safety of every citizen. the current cooperation system is subject to numerous delays and gaps and is under-scaled. maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations will be coordinated at european level to improve maritime situational awareness and support coherent and effective action. i voted for strengthening the capacity to respond to the maritime threats and risks facing the european union. the result of this improved solidarity between member states through increased information exchange is helping to address the challenges posed by the migrant crisis, or even helping to fight terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the vote by meps in favour of this report makes it possible to better manage the impact of migration and to ensure a higher level of security in the european union.
in writing. ‒ protecting the eu’s borders means strengthening frontex and enhancing its mandate, taking ambitious steps towards the establishment of a european border and coast guard. this will strengthen the eu’s ability to deploy resources quickly when a crisis occurs. the eu cannot ignore the reality of the challenge faced today in member states managing the union’s external borders. the external border remains the most important single point for establishing the stability of asylum and migration policy as a whole. it is a strong external border which allows us to free up our internal borders through the schengen area, and to guarantee free movement of people. therefore, we must work more closely together to manage our external borders.
in writing. ‒ the schengen area comprises 26 countries that have abolished their border controls and implies free movement of citizens, one of the greatest visible achievements of european integration. because of the migrant crisis, considered by some countries as a threat to internal security, eight of them have reintroduced border controls. these are belgium, denmark, germany, hungary, austria, slovenia, sweden and norway, followed by france and malta to apply the same tactic. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which addresses the need to ensure proper control of the schengen external border in order to ensure a high level of security, while at the same time not restricting the free movement of citizens within the european union. the adoption of this resolution, which is an emergency, also aims to strengthen external border control and return to a situation without border controls in the schengen area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the extension of the tasks and capacity of frontex is a necessary step towards the implementation of integrated border management at union level. member states need better coordination to be able to carry out rescue and return operations for irregularly staying migrants, as well as increased operational and technical assistance through joint operations and rapid border interventions. cooperation and coordination of the activities of the new border and coast guard agency with europol, eurojust and eurosur will become essential to support and strengthen the actions of the member states. preventing and combating crossborder organised crime, disrupting trafficking networks, and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities are objectives which, if pursued at european level, can be much more effective. last but not least, the new agency should monitor the level of security at all external borders and contribute to addressing the lack of harmonisation of union standards on border security. without a clear definition and uninterrupted application of common criteria for securing borders, the eu will not be able to ensure a high and uniform level of security and, consequently, an effective implementation of migration policy.
in writing. ‒ the schengen area, as an area of 26 countries without internal border control in which persons may move freely, is rightly considered by many as among the biggest and most visible achievements of european integration. i have voted for this report that will ensure the proper control of the schengen external border as a precondition to manage migration effectively, insuring a high level of security while safeguarding the free movement of persons within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting today on the report on the establishment of the european border and coast guard, as i consider it unfair that non-schengen states are being asked to get involved in this structure. of course, this structure could help to make the eu's borders more efficient and secure, but i cannot support a project that, once again, requires romania to be involved on an equal footing with the schengen countries, without our country being accepted in this area.
in writing. ‒ the intensification of migration to the eu member states has raised a number of issues in the management of the union's external and internal borders. a number of member states have called for the temporary suspension of the provisions of the schengen agreement on grounds of internal security, due to the permeability of the eu's external borders. the management of the external border is currently ensured by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), but in the current circumstances, ensuring the security of the union's maritime borders requires the development of a new and more efficient framework. the establishment of the european border and coast guard (ebcg), with the assistance of similar authorities in the member states, would implement the concept of european integrated border management, acting as a preventive mechanism to avoid ineffective external border control, by deploying liaison officers in the member states, following the establishment of a reserve of 1 500 border guards, and by establishing a stronger role of the agency in the field of return and enhanced cooperation with third countries. this european effort will not be possible, however, without the political commitment of all member states and without the appropriate allocation of resources from the community budget. i support the current report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european border and coast guard. the schengen area is considered one of the greatest and most visible achievements of european integration. as eight schengen states - belgium, denmark, germany, hungary, austria, slovenia, sweden and norway - have now reintroduced border controls under pressure from the wave of migrants, it is imperative to address the identified weaknesses and to find effective solutions leading to the preservation of free movement within the schengen area. the proposal on european border and coast guard addresses the need to ensure adequate control at the external border of the schengen area as a precondition for effective migration management, in order to ensure a high level of security in the union while safeguarding the free movement of persons within its territory.
in writing. ‒ this initiative proposes enhanced cooperation between the european maritime safety agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency to support authorities performing coast guard functions at national and union level and, where appropriate, at international level through a series of concrete measures. it is intended to share information by aggregating and analysing data available in ship reporting systems and other computer systems hosted by or accessible to the agencies, in accordance with their legal bases and without prejudice to the ownership of data by member states. furthermore, another measure is the provision of state-of-the-art surveillance and communication services, capacity building through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices and capacity sharing. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that european cooperation in the field of coast guard is necessary, and that there is a need for greater coordination between european agencies, so that there is cohesion between the services provided and at the same time a high level of safety is ensured.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, supports authorities performing coast guard functions at both national and union level by providing surveillance and communication services, through staff exchange and, not least, through information exchange. i voted for better functioning of maritime surveillance and for better solving the problems arising from this environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency because i believe that ensuring safety and security in this area is essential.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur was arnautu – enf – so i followed the group decision not to table amendments to or support the enf report, but to instead support the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the establishment of a european agency for maritime safety and control.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency is one of the eu’s decentralised agencies. based in lisbon, the agency provides technical assistance and support to the commission and member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution by ships and maritime security. i have voted for this report that will modify regulation no 1406/2002 for establishing a european maritime safety agency with the purpose of ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution by ships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concludes the process of changing the legislation with a view to developing systems of cooperation between this agency, the european fisheries control agency and the european border and coast guard. i believe that the exchange of information and data between the three agencies, each with its own procedures and technologies for monitoring coastal areas, will help to identify and manage crisis situations more promptly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ the european union's maritime activity is one of the most important transport sectors on our continent. for this reason, ensuring security and safety in this area is one of the priorities of the european institutions. to this end, the commission has proposed a legislative package to strengthen the protection of the union's external maritime borders by establishing the european border and coast guard (ebcg), the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and by revising the role of the community fisheries control agency (efca). the proposal aims at cooperation between the three entities and similar national authorities of the member states, through the exchange of maritime information, surveillance and communication services based on the latest information technologies, including gps, the development of guides to good practice and recommendations, support for training and exchange of experience of specialised staff at national level, pooling of planning and implementation capacities. i consider this to be a key document in this area and support the commission's proposal and the report as proposed by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe).
in writing. ‒ this initiative proposes enhanced cooperation between the european fisheries control agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european maritime safety agency to support authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national and union level and, where appropriate, at international level through a series of concrete measures. it is intended to share information by aggregating and analysing data available in ship reporting systems and other computer systems hosted by or accessible to the agencies, in accordance with their legal bases and without prejudice to the ownership of data by member states. furthermore, another measure is the provision of state-of-the-art surveillance and communication services, capacity building through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices and capacity sharing. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that european cooperation in the field of coast guard is necessary, and that there is a need for greater coordination between european agencies, so that there is cohesion between the services provided and, at the same time, a high level of safety is ensured.
in writing. ‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks in diverse areas such as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and law enforcement in general. at european level, there are currently 316 such national authorities. these numerous authorities work together through 70 different structures. for this reason, the current system of cooperation is lagging behind and lacking in clarity. i voted for strengthening the capacity to respond to the maritime threats and risks facing the european union by improving cooperation between european agencies, but also with all civil and military actors.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the adoption of this report enables the three agencies to coordinate their operations at sea and exchange information useful for their actions, pooling their action capacities and exchanging surveillance information for the benefit of maritime safety and security.
in writing. ‒ national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement in general. under this proposal, maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations will be coordinated at eu level in order to improve maritime awareness and support operations that are consistent and cost-effective. i welcome the proposal, which seeks to bring the powers and responsibilities of the european fisheries control agency into line with those of the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency as regards cooperation on coastguard functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which involves aligning the tasks of the three agencies, the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency, on the cooperation of coast guard functions. the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the capacity to respond to the maritime threats and risks facing the european union and to improve cooperation between european agencies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims to enable the three european agencies (european fisheries control agency, european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency) who are dealing with disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information with regards to their activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the conclusions of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the way in which the european fisheries control agency operates and is involved in cooperation with the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard. the expertise of the fisheries control agency, together with the constant data and information it collects through vessel and catch monitoring systems, will help to identify possible irregularities or crisis situations falling within the remit of the other agencies. at the same time, cooperation with other structures and more effective coordination between civil and military authorities with coast guard responsibilities will help the european fisheries control agency to combat iuu fishing and ensure the correct application of the cfp principles and rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. the report calls on the three european agencies dealing with disasters at sea, among other things, to coordinate their operations and exchange information. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate by pooling their capabilities and exchanging surveillance information for the benefit of maritime safety and security. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the capacity to respond to the maritime threats and risks facing the european union, in particular by improving cooperation between european agencies, but also with all civil and military actors. cooperation would avoid duplication of effort, ensuring that european agencies act in a coherent and effective manner to develop synergies.
in writing. fisheries are governed by precise rules at eu level, which give coherence to community policy in this area. an important element in this regard is ensuring maritime security and safety, which involves in particular rescue at sea, border control, customs control and environmental protection. unfortunately, the existence of a high degree of fragmentation between the various national maritime authorities makes it impossible to have a policy with a minimum of coherence at european level. in order to strengthen cooperation and interoperability between national institutions, the commission proposed to review the competence of the european fisheries control agency (efca) to include cooperation on coast guard tasks. cooperation will include, through coordinated action with the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard (ebcg), systematic exchanges of relevant information, the provision of surveillance and communication services, awareness-raising on maritime security and safety issues, rescue at sea, fisheries and border control, and the conduct of multidimensional operations. the coordination of the resources of the three entities will be beneficial for the most efficient action in the field of maritime safety, including the implementation of the fishing activity under appropriate conditions. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the importance of strengthening the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office has been underlined on several occasions, as early as 2013. i voted to close the loopholes in the european anti-fraud office's rules of procedure, allowing it to work more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, thus providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee. under the new proposed regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission, and no longer by olaf (article 15(8)). the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be moved from the budget line and the establishment plan of olaf to that of the commission (article 18). the proposed modification will thus not have any financial implications on the european budget. i agree with the proposal of the commission and the adoption of the fast-track procedure, therefore i am in favour of the mandate. there is a longstanding misunderstanding between olaf and the sc. the purpose of the separation of the two was to improve the working relations. we need efficient working relations between olaf and the sc for the protection of the eu’s financial interests
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. the proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that the secretariat of the supervisory committee is provided by the commission, and not by olaf, without this having a financial impact on the european budget.
in writing. ‒ the task force ‘anti-fraud coordination unit (the modern day olaf) was created in 1988 as part of the secretariat-general of the european commission. the task force worked alongside national anti-fraud departments and provided the coordination and assistance needed to tackle transnational organised fraud. i have voted for this report that aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee’s secretariat, providing for a more effective functioning of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the fight against fraud at european level requires coordinated and intensified action by the member states and the european institutions. this is also why the report adopted today gives more independence to the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office to eliminate conflicts of interest, thus giving it a more efficient functioning, and this will facilitate the fight against tax evasion and fraud on european territory.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is one of the important entities of the union for the supervision of good financial conduct at the level of the european institutions. in this respect, ensuring the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat is crucial for the proper functioning of the entity, as is the efficiency of the functioning of the supervisory committee. there have been problems lately with the coherence of the relationship between olaf and the supervisory committee (sc) and this needed to be changed. the proposal resulting from the consultations between the commission, the council and parliament includes clarifying those issues by providing the secretariat of the sc directly by the commission and not by olaf, with the necessary budgetary changes. at the same time, the tasks of the data protection officer (dpo) of olaf will continue to include data processing activities by the secretariat, and the same confidentiality rules as in the past will continue to apply to secretariat staff. i consider that these are changes necessary for the proper functioning of olaf and for the protection of the financial interests of the union. for these reasons, i support the adoption of the report in its current form.
madam president, the union is going through crisis after crisis. there was the economic crisis, then the refugee crisis, our borders are threatened and we have terrorist threats from within the union as well. we must defend ourselves from all. all this puts pressure on the union budget. however, i agree and vote in favour of this report which calls for the revision of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, including the increase of the ceilings for expenditure on youth employment, and migration-related programmes. a new tool is needed to deal with the refugee crisis. but the decision-making system for allocating this money needs to be reformed, and let's not make the same mistake with mandatory quotas.
in writing. ‒ the recent challenges facing the union led to the request for the post-election revision clause of the multiannual financial framework (mff). since the adoption of the mff, the union has faced a number of challenges that were not foreseen initially, which requires an adjustment of the mff to reflect the new political and budgetary priorities of the union. there are now institutional concerns that were not anticipated at the time of the adoption of the mff. the refugee crisis, internal security issues, the agricultural crisis, the payments crisis facing the eu budget, the persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people, and poverty and social exclusion are pressing issues that are significantly altering the priorities and the budget of the union. as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i cannot help but stress the problems in the common agricultural policy, which requires more flexible financial resources and, at the same time, the provision of flexible instruments for farmers, in order to ensure an economically viable agricultural sector. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that the multiannual financial framework needs to be adapted to the current challenges facing the union in order to identify the best solutions anchored in the current reality.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing an unprecedented number of crises, in its neighbourhood and beyond. the refugee crisis, security threats and armed conflicts threaten fundamental values and require enhanced solidarity and joint action. addressing the crises facing europe is a priority. i voted for the implementation of comprehensive measures to help resolve these crises that threaten the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the preparation of the post-electoral review of the mff 2014-2020. the report contains a number of elements, such as the use of financial instruments, which address romania's concerns.
in writing. ‒ the current mff (2014-2020) has already been pushed to its limits during the first years, due to the growing number of crises the eu is confronted with. therefore, i support the upward revision of the current mff that is proven to be absolutely indispensable if the eu is to effectively confront a crisis while fulfilling its political objectives and obligations. i support the raising of the respective mff 2014-2020 ceilings, enhancing the flexibility provisions of the current mff, and the fully-fledged reform of the system of financing the union that has also been included in the package. moreover, i believe that the report will pave the way for the preparation of the next mff (post 2020).
in writing. ‒ the report on the preparation of the post-electoral review of the mff 2014-2020 contains a number of elements that meet the concerns of the member states, in particular romania, such as the use of financial instruments. i did not vote for this report because it includes proposals with a high degree of sensitivity, particularly in relation to migration management (sanctions for non-compliance with migration commitments, recycling of redundancies, etc.). the proposal on 'recycling of decommitment funds', in particular in relation to the cohesion fund, interpreted in relation to the future multiannual financial framework, could lead to a negative precedent, as it would reinforce the arguments of the contributing member states on the need to reduce allocations for cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ this report includes the opinion of several committees and their suggestions on the preparation of the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal to revise the mff is a key point in the management of union expenditure, thus guaranteeing the efficiency of eu investment programmes. the report also aims to simplify application forms and criteria and reporting and reimbursement requirements for both small and very large scale projects. the aim is to simplify procedures for achieving the eu's political and strategic objectives, in particular as regards the decentralisation of the allocation of funds.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) lays down the maximum annual amounts (‘ceilings’) which the eu may spend in different political fields (‘headings’) over a period of at least five years. i have voted for this report regarding the revision proposal for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework with a special focus on employment, growth and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against today's report because i believe that at a decisive moment for the construction of europe, we, the member states, must show unity. i fear that the text of the report we are proposing today will only create a typical adversarial situation, a new reality in which some member states will be favoured over others, which will certainly bring less europe. i am referring, first of all, to the proposal to impose sanctions on countries which have been reluctant to accept a fixed number of refugees from the european commission, without taking into account their logistical and financial capacities, and this may bring about a new wave of euroscepticism, which i do not want.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) allows the european union to plan for the implementation of its policies, programmes and projects over a seven-year period. the current mff (2014-2020) was adopted in 2013 and did not include a number of challenges currently facing the union that were not originally envisaged. a mid-term review is therefore needed, resulting from the institutional negotiation at european level, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. the current report expresses parliament's position on the revision of the mff, following consultation of 14 specialised committees. the review is therefore intended to take into account the refugee and migration crisis, low levels of investment, high levels of youth unemployment, the need to strengthen internal security, crises in the agricultural sector, environmental issues, economic, social and territorial cohesion, increased pressure on development and neighbourhood policies, gender mainstreaming and payment arrears. in this respect, it is recommended to apply flexibility mechanisms, subject to the guarantee of the eu's fundamental right, use extraordinary revenue, support measures following international agreements on climate change, reform of the own resources system, budgetary unity and greater involvement of parliament in decision-making. i support the adoption of this important document.
in writing. ‒ the commission should present a mandatory evaluation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 which would normally be accompanied by a legislative proposal to revise this framework. in this report, parliament sets out its own analysis of the current framework and stresses that it should provide more flexibility for the eu to react appropriately to unexpected crises. the challenges facing the eu in recent times, such as the migration and refugee crisis, terrorism and internal security issues, have had extremely important budgetary consequences since the adoption of the mff in 2013. in this respect, a mid-term review is absolutely necessary for the eu to address a number of issues and achieve its policy objectives. to that end, the changes resulting from the mid-term review of the multiannual framework should be implemented swiftly and included in the 2017 budget. the report also proposes the creation of a permanent eu reserve in the european budget for crisis situations and stresses the need for reform of the own resources system based on principles such as simplification, fairness and transparency. the commission has also received comments from the sampled union producers.
madam president, we have a duty to the citizens to combat fragmented tax systems, in which multinationals pay no tax at all or much less than smes. it is crying foul and this is a distortion of competition which leads to the loss of many jobs and weakening the economy. now, according to the commission, tax evasion and fraud amounts to 1 000 billion euros. the cost of tax evasion to the member states of the union is estimated at eur 50 to 70 billion per year in terms of lost tax revenues. i voted for this report because it makes access to free trade and taxation agreements conditional (suspension of access to free trade and taxation agreements being seen as a sanction) and, moreover, the report proposes to include a good tax governance clause.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is a problem with serious implications for the european union and the member states, directly affecting the union budget. combating tax evasion and tax avoidance must be a priority for each member state in order to restore tax justice. the support of member states is important in efforts to combat tax evasion, and they should themselves adopt legislative proposals to combat tax avoidance. as regards the existing codes of conduct for the tax advisory sector, they need to be strengthened in order to avoid situations of conflict of interest. national parliaments should also step up their cooperation to ensure adequate control and coherence of tax systems, strengthening their work on tax matters. i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings and other measures similar or having similar effects because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the fairness of tax systems and the guarantee of the payment of taxes, and that it is important to create effective tools to combat tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates tax evasion and fraud at €1 trillion a year, while the oecd estimates that lost revenues globally are between 4% and 10% of total corporate tax revenues. almost a third of businesses' cross-border investments are channelled through offshore financial arrangements. parliament held a meeting with representatives of the governments of andorra, liechtenstein, monaco, guernsey and jersey, following which they committed to implementing the automatic exchange of information by 2017. we voted for a first step towards eradicating tax evasion by encouraging communication between national parliaments and supporting the work of the european commission in investigating all cases.
in writing. ‒ i support the underlying approach of the report, as reflected in a series of priorities, such as tax havens, the role of intermediaries, banks and tax advisers, the protection of whistle-blowers, and various harmful tax measures (patent boxes). therefore, i especially support stronger wording on the tax havens blacklist, and sanctions based on sound, transparent and objective criteria and including the implementation of oecd recommendations, tax transparency measures, and standards for the automatic exchange of information. i also agree that a clear legal framework is needed to guarantee effective protection of whistle-blowers, as well as of journalists and other persons connected with the press who aid and facilitate them. it is important to have a reform of the code of conduct, increased transparency, and a change of governance through a union code of conduct for all advising services to enable situations involving potential conflicts of interest to be clearly disclosed.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that discusses tax havens, banks, tax advisers and the protection of whistle-blowers – among other important elements. a reform of the code of conduct is needed, while increased transparency is a must. work therefore needs to be done to enforce sanctions on tax havens and those who aid in the process of tax withholding.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report that will make corporate taxation fairer and clearer and will bring clarity and simplicity for businesses, facilitating cross-border economic activities within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns tax rulings arising from the work of the special committee set up for this purpose, because it lays down rules for regulating 'tax havens' created by crossborder transactions. this will facilitate the declassification of banking information, which often prevents the identification of the ultimate beneficiaries of trust funds from offshore placements. i welcome the initiative of the european parliament to address the issues of the luxleaks and panama papers tax scandals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is the representative forum of european citizens. in this capacity, parliament undertook a substantial inquiry, following the 'panama papers' and 'luxleaks' scandals, to determine the extent of tax evasion within the union, including how some of the revenues of european taxpayers end up in 'tax havens' around the world. in this regard, the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe) was set up in 2015 and its mandate was extended by the establishment of the taxe 2 special committee. the work of the last committee resulted in the present report, which contains the conclusions reached on a number of issues less addressed by the first committee, such as tax havens, the role of intermediaries, tax and banking advisers, whistleblower protection, harmful tax measures, patents for inventions, etc. issues related to the publication of beneficial ownership registers of companies, withholding tax, non-cooperative jurisdictions, publication of country reports, reform of the code of conduct, increased transparency and the publication of a blacklist of tax havens were also addressed. i think it is a very useful document for combating tax evasion and i support its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the european union must now be more concerned than ever with identifying mechanisms and levers to express european solidarity and, at the same time, reduce economic and social disparities between member states. cohesion policy as a whole is the instrument at the disposal of the union in achieving these important objectives. beyond flexibility and adaptation to new realities, it is important to further strengthen synergies between the five funds, but also with other important programmes in the field. particular emphasis should be placed on research, innovation, development and strengthening of the position of smes, with a view to exploiting the results obtained, so that the number of jobs increases. last but not least, simplification of procedures, clear rules for the application of financial instruments and, above all, transparency in the allocation of these funds must be a priority for the commission. all of the above led me to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that synergies between funds should be systematically monitored and a communication on these synergies should be published, in order to disseminate examples of good practice and amplify their impact ahead of the europe 2020 review.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, the european commission adopted the article 16(3) communication on maximising the contribution of the european union structural and investment (esi) funds to the eu's growth strategy, the investment plan and the commission's priorities until 2020. however, information on the synergies of cohesion policy with the other funds like horizon 2020 (h2020) is underestimated in this report. i support this oral question in order to know the commission's opinion on the results of the synergies, in particular between the cohesion funds and horizon 2020, and whether the commission is willing to present a communication on the implementation of synergies of the esi funds with h2020, galileo/copernicus, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and other european innovation funds.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy 2014-2020, this financial programming period, can be considered the main instrument of the european union to bring the citizens of this great european community closer to it. this policy is aimed at investing in the real economy and is an expression of european solidarity by promoting growth and prosperity and reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, which have been exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on promoting excellence in the areas of smart specialisation under horizon 2020. these include awareness-raising, information provision, engagement in communication campaigns and the results of horizon 2020 projects. also, the results orientation in cohesion policy would lead to increased synergies with other eu policies on competitiveness in research and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution stating that links between cohesion policy and other eu policies and initiatives have improved within the common strategic framework, thus contributing to achieving the europe 2020 targets.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period is an important eu instrument, applicable to all regions and aimed at investing in the real economy. i voted for the resolution on synergies for innovation because it underlines the urgent need to increase synergies between cohesion policy and other eu policies on competitiveness, in particular in the areas of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes. such synergies would improve the eu's r&d performance and contribute to the creation of quality jobs. i draw attention to the seal of excellence, which is awarded to projects judged to be excellent under horizon 2020. unfortunately, many projects listed in this way do not receive funding and a solution should be found to this end, possibly by unblocking alternative funds.
in writing. ‒ i have resolved to support this joint motion for a resolution as it aims to foster links between cohesion policy and other eu policies (such as horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility and the digital single market) in order to maximise their overall impact. cohesion policy continues to be the main eu instrument bringing the union closer to its citizens. this motion for a resolution emphasizes that the rationale of strengthening synergies between esi funds and horizon 2020 lies in building interactions between investment strategies and interventions in order to ensure higher impact. furthermore, the preparations by the commission for the possible establishment of a european innovation council for better coordination of innovation initiatives in the european union are highlighted.
in writing. ‒ following the financial and economic crisis of 2008, the european union has taken a number of measures to avoid such crises in the future and to support the development and strengthening of the member states. one such instrument is the eu structural and investment funds (esi funds), which contribute to the union's growth strategy. the activities financed through these funds overlap with those financed through other european union programmes such as horizon 2020, galileo/copernic, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the european innovation funds. the commission adopted a communication in december 2015 supporting synergies between cohesion policy and the other financial instruments, but did not specify how this is achieved in practice. this resolution seeks to clarify this type of procedure in order to make more efficient use of european funds. for that reason, i express my support for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i consider it of the utmost importance that the commission should monitor, encourage and support member states in the efficient and effective spending of funds to boost youth employment and the creation of quality jobs, especially in regions with high unemployment, through programmes funded by the 'jobs for young people' initiative and the european structural and investment funds, the european fund for strategic investments and the european investment bank.
in writing. ‒ i believe the commission should be concentrated on how to improve working and living conditions of european citizens. we want a strengthened european pillar of social rights: social protection and essential services; reducing social inequalities and promoting quality jobs; the commission, in cooperation with the member states and social partners, should also reinforce the european social dialogue. we must also strengthen economic growth and improve our long-term competitiveness; have a new ambitious industrial strategy building on and complementing the circular economy package; respond to climate change and ensure energy security. the eu must also give a consistent response to the increased inflow of refugees; organise direct resettlement and relocation of asylum seekers and ensure their safety and humane treatment. also there is a need to address the security concerns of citizens through judicial cooperation, timely sharing of information between national authorities and through europol and eurojust; with data protection safeguards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the strategic priorities of the commission's 2017 work programme on improving the working and living conditions of european citizens, for strengthening economic recovery and competitiveness in the long term, for job creation, by implication for raising living standards and generating prosperity. common strategies are needed to respond to climate change and energy security, and also to ensure a coherent response to the increased influx of refugees, hence real concerns for citizens' security and, not least, the development of an ambitious external action agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution that should promote the accessibility and quality of early education, childcare and healthcare, close the skills gap and ensure quality education, training and lifelong learning for all, reduce social inequalities and promote quality employment, among other things. the commission work programme, based on president juncker’s political guidelines entitled ‘a new start for europe: my agenda for jobs, growth, fairness and democratic change’, defined its priorities and committed to concentrate on important things where eu citizens expect europe to make a difference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the strategic priorities of the commission's work programme for 2017. in this resolution we call on the commission to draw up an ambitious new industrial strategy with the reindustrialisation of europe, the creation of competitive jobs and the preservation of jobs in europe as its central elements. we stress that additional public and private investment is needed for energy transition, eco-innovative smes, research and education. the commission should propose more measures to stimulate research and development, innovation, cultural diversity and creativity as key elements for job creation, taking into account that access to capital for companies, in particular smes, is essential to encourage the development and production of new products and services, both in traditional and emerging sectors, and to protect intellectual property rights. at the same time, efforts to achieve the energy union, to guarantee energy security and sustainable energy at affordable prices for all citizens and businesses, and to combat energy poverty, need to be stepped up.
in writing. ‒ in a context where the challenges faced by the union threaten to diminish european citizens’ faith in it, it is crucial to solidly define the main axis of the commission’s strategy for the coming year. doing so adequately is key to strengthening the european project in the months to come, and thus i resolved to support this motion for a resolution. the issues addressed in it include specific steps to continue improving the working and living conditions of european citizens, to strengthen economic recovery and competitiveness in the long run, to respond to climate change and to ensure energy security. furthermore, emphasis is placed on the urgency of developing a solution to the refugee crisis in light of the increased inflow of refugees, of addressing the threats of terrorism, and developing an external action agenda through an ambitious eu global strategy.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is the union institution that implements the policies, programmes and projects decided in the community decision-making fora. parliament gives these policies the democratic character of its representativeness by helping to set priorities. for 2017, following the sustained work of the specialised committees, a number of priorities have been established which take into account recent events that have an indirect effect or impact on the union. these include improving working and living conditions for european citizens, strengthening long-term economic recovery and competitiveness, creating jobs and generating prosperity, responding to climate change and ensuring energy security, a coherent response to the growing influx of refugees, addressing citizens' security concerns, an ambitious agenda for external action at global and neighbourhood level, adequate taxation policies for adequate resources, strengthening the community budget and financial instruments, completing the economic and monetary union, strengthening fundamental rights and democracy. while all areas managed through the eu budget must be priorities for the commission, their prioritisation and integrated management is the first step towards achieving them gradually, as far as possible. i support the current resolution of parliament in the hope of a better 2017.
in writing. ‒ the international whaling commission banned commercial whaling in 1982. nevertheless, japan continued to hunt for more than 17,000. the international court of justice's ruling of 31 march 2014 halted this activity for a year, but in 2015 japan resumed whaling under its atlantic whale scientific research plan, thus intending to hunt a total of 3 996 individuals over the next 12 years, an activity that will cause severe and lasting suffering to the animals and threaten the conservation of the entire whale population. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling in the 2015-2016 season, as it calls on japan to comply with the icj decision and to cease all whaling activities, as well as to comply with its international legal obligations on the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ despite international regulations prohibiting commercial whaling, japan has a long tradition of whaling and has always found excuses to break the moratorium established by the international whaling commission in 1986 to restrict the hunting of certain mammals, even for research purposes. moreover, in recent years, japan has engaged in trade in whale meat and other whale products, despite the fact that they are listed in appendix i to cites. the european union has adopted a common negotiating position totally opposed to any commercial whaling. i support the ep resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling in the 2015-2016 season as i find it alarming that japan intends to hunt a total of about 4 000 whales over the entire 12 year period following the decision to resume whaling under the new newrep programme. japan clearly ignores the ruling of the international court of justice and considers that the hunting activities in question constitute a violation of the iwc (international whaling commission) standards.
in writing. ‒ by resuming whaling japan is clearly ignoring the ruling of the international court of justice (icj), which ordered, in its judgment of 31 march 2014, the halting of japan’s annual slaughter of whales in the southern ocean. the international court of justice has concluded that the hunts are not, as japan claims, conducted for scientific research. the hunts are thus in breach of international law and undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. i do not believe that to cite tradition or sovereignty can justify this breach of international law. many whale populations have not recovered from overexploitation in past centuries. japan’s slaughter of whales, supposedly in the name of science is cruel and scientifically unnecessary. japan has to stop this needless killing. i strongly believe that the commission and council must take further steps to condemn japan’s whaling programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of banning the resumption of commercial whaling by japan in the 2015-2016 season to protect stocks from disappearing and allowing them to recover. whaling causes an imbalance and a real threat to the conservation status of whale populations as a whole. the main objective is to apply additional political pressure on japan to stop its whaling program.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls on japan to stop all its whaling activities and commit to its international obligations regarding the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main international actors that consistently advocates for the protection of biodiversity in the world. in this context, the union has become a party to several international conventions prohibiting hunting and fishing for endangered species. among these is the agreement of the international whaling commission (iwc), which declared a moratorium on the ban on commercial whaling as early as 1986. the eu also complies with the international court of justice ruling of march 2014 banning whaling in antarctica. in these circumstances, japan's resumption of whaling in the antarctic ocean area, under the scientific whale research programme (newrep-a), is a flagrant violation of international conventions. the scientific work is a false front for japan's commercial whaling, which has been repeatedly used in the past 10 years, resulting in the killing of 20,000 whales. as the actions of the japanese state represent a threat to an endangered species, the european parliament must strongly condemn these actions and demand, on behalf of the eu, an immediate end to this veritable massacre. i support the immediate adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the afet working group decided not to follow the submitted resolution(s) objecting to the commission delegated act so as not to get involved in domestic political considerations of member states bordering on belarus, on the one hand; and not to impede the new strategy of ‘critical engagement’ followed by the commission towards belarus, on the other hand. i followed the position of the afet working group.
in writing. ‒ abstention, i.e. i do not support the resolution opposing the delegated act.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution regarding the eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses as regards belarus. on 11 october following the re-election of president lukashenko with 83.5% of the vote, a lot of significant problems were reported with regard to the counting and tabulation that might undermine the election’s integrity.
in writing. ‒ considering that on 9 february 2016 the eba issued an opinion for the commission, expressing its dissent over some of its proposed amendments to the eba final draft regulatory technical standard (rts) on the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel), that resolution funds have been established in order to provide resolution financing in exceptional circumstances where a resolution scheme cannot be executed using only the financial resources of the failing institution, and that failure to execute the scheme would threaten financial stability or other resolution objectives, i supported the objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria relating to the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against directive 2014/59/eu, which constitutes a constraint on the application of resolution tools in a way that meets the resolution objectives for systemically important institutions. the regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the methodology for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities also raise objections to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution with regard to setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities as i do not agree with the final version of the resolution that was proposed for voting in the plenary.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i apologise for the delay but as you know – because you were also there for part of the meeting – i was at the committee on foreign affairs (afet) briefing for the pre-foreign affairs council meeting. first of all let me say that this is the first opportunity we have had to discuss the global strategy that i presented to the european council last week after the council saw and welcomed the strategy itself. the fact that this hemicycle is the first occasion to discuss the follow-up to the strategy and its presentation is, for me, more than something symbolic, because you have accompanied me and all of us in this collective work since the beginning. i would like to thank parliament and in particular ms kalniete for her report and for the several exchanges we have had along the way. i really appreciated the role that parliament played, as well as, let me say too, the role that national parliaments played all along the way, and i count very much on this to continue as we enter into the most delicate phase, which is the follow-up and implementation of the strategy because no strategy makes sense if it stays on paper, it has to translate into action. i would like to add another thing. as you might imagine, the fact that i decided to present the strategy to the european council, even after the results of the uk referendum, was not in any way a decision that was taken for granted. i did it after deep reflection precisely because i am convinced that at this time, we need to focus on what the european union needs to do for its citizens, and acting together at world level, on the global scale, is one of the key action elements for the european union and it is clearly an element where either we act together as europeans, or none of our member states has the size, the power, the tools, to act effectively as a global player. so i thought it was exactly the right moment to point to the need to come together and work together on the global scene, as europeans, if we want to respond to the security challenges, but also to the economic opportunities that the world offers us. i guess that by now you will have seen the global strategy, the final result of our work, and you might have noticed that the world is described as fragile; if you look at the news every single day it is quite clear that this is the situation we are living in today. it is very different from the world’s state in 2003 when the previous strategy was released. let me start with a small reference to something big that has happened in the past few days, the terrorist attack in dhaka in bangladesh, and if you think of it, bangladesh has long been considered a stable country, a country safe for eu citizens, an unlikely target for terror and yet today we mourn the victims of last week’s attack, among them nine citizens from italy, which means nine citizens of our european union. and on the very same days, istanbul and baghdad were also hit. we are getting used to numbers as if these were not people with lives and families, people with dreams and hopes, and a normal life, whether at work or ‘iftar’, just people living their lives, that is being attacked at its very essence. and it is to tackle this aspect of focusing on people’s lives and the everyday life of our citizens and those that are not our citizens that this strategy is being conceived. we believe that our citizens and the citizens of the entire world need a more united europe and a stronger european union if we want to make their lives better and safer. as i said, i decided to present a strategy even if it was coming in turbulent and sad days. i decided to go on with the presentation because, yes, the result of the british vote is going to change many things – for the uk, first of all, for the uk’s citizens, and also for the european union – but the european project does not stop here. i know you discussed this earlier this morning but just two days ago i was with our friends in the western balkans – we were together in paris for a summit with the prime ministers of the region – and as we face inside the european union waves of euro-scepticism or a negative attitude towards the european union, in the western balkans our friends have to manage the expectations of euro-enthusiasm. i think it is extremely healthy for us to see what the european union is about, seen from the outside, and realise what is at stake, what we risk losing, and why we need still today, and even more today, to come together and act together as europeans. so our union goes on and cannot afford uncertainty. we need for sure to rethink the way in which the european union works, but we need first of all to work on the priorities of our citizens. this strategy shows the way forward on security, foreign policy and defence. after months of consultations with all the european union institutions, including this parliament, with all the member states, with so many citizens in the union, we have agreed on a shared vision for our foreign policy and on the common actions to turn the vision into reality. we have discussed this strategy many times in this hemicycle, with the conference of presidents, with the committees. thank you again for the excellent report by sandra kalniete. i do not need to go through the individual points of the document. some have told me it is a very long strategy. it is indeed because it contains a lot of very detailed and also some framework things, but also very concrete things that we need to do and yes, it is long because there is a lot of work to do, but i would like to focus on a few central points. first of all, the strategy builds using our union’s potential which is huge. each of our countries alone has very little leverage when we negotiate with powers the size of a continent like china or the us, but as a union of almost half a billion people, we talk to china and the us as peers and this is something that no member state alone will ever manage to do. and yet this is something that we do not even realise. we still think as national states and this is what needs to be changed. this is what we need to change if we want to be a relevant and effective player in the world. let me echo here words that some of you said in the hemicycle in brussels last week that i found to be extremely wise. there is no contradiction between our local, our national and our european identities. it is not a matter of philosophy here, it is a matter of putting together the instruments we have and realising that there are some instruments that are only effective if we use them at the european common level. so the great challenge is to make full use of all our tools in a common and coherent way and to make sure that they all serve our shared european interests. because, yes, there is a common european interest that can only be served through common means. the strategy focuses on how to maximise the impact of some tools that we already use, starting with development cooperation. our union, as you know very well, is already the biggest aid donor worldwide, investing more than the rest of the world combined in development cooperation. but we can make our aid much more effective if we work more on joint programming, for instance, and if we develop further partnerships between the european union institutions, member states, the international financial institutions and the private sector, and if we deepen our partnership and cooperation with our friends in the rest of the world. we are also starting to explore new fields of common action, such as energy, diplomacy, cultural diplomacy and economic diplomacy, but the strategy also states very clearly that what we are so good at, soft power, is not enough in these times. obviously, nobody calls into question the fact that soft power is and will remain the centre of our external action, also because we are the best in the world at soft power. but our union has already evolved into something much more than a civilian power alone, and the same concept of human security is something that requires not only a military or security – in a traditional sense – approach, but the whole range of tools we can use. so we have to overcome the debate about whether europeans come from venus or mars. we have to join the instruments we have because the limits between security and the rest is becoming thinner and thinner and we see it in our everyday lives, including inside our european union. so the strategy also focuses on our security, defence and military instruments. our missions and operations contribute to global peace and security already today, and this is something that the international community fully recognises. you might have seen that the un security council passed another resolution very recently, the second one, endorsing operation sophia in a very clear way with unanimous support. so the world recognises the military assets and the security and defence capabilities and capacity of the european union. sometimes from the inside we have some difficulties looking at it in a clear way and we have to overcome that. from our region to the broader world, from colombia to the philippines, our partners are working already now with the european union as a global security provider, and we are putting our partnerships at the core of our foreign and security policy. an anecdote that brings a lot of symbolism: the first person with whom i shared physically the strategy after having presented it to the european council was my friend jens stoltenberg, the nato secretary-general, ahead of the nato summit in warsaw the day after tomorrow, as we are also strengthening our cooperation with nato, as will be discussed at the summit itself. we are stronger when we can cooperate with strong partners, including strong regional organisations. this is another key concept of the strategy. this implies concrete follow-up, meaning that we will need to work more and more, and in a coordinated way, to reinforce our partners, starting with existing organisations such as the african union, celac, the arab league and asean, and also to explore new formats and also different geometries of that. we saw with the iranian deal last year that every single situation requires different formats for cooperation worldwide, but all of them require some partnerships and some multilateralism formats in one way or another. we are stronger when the un system is strong and we know very well that the way of making the un system strong is not only to preserve its values and its centralities, but also to reform it, so the strategy refers to the need and the will to work on the reform of the united nations, including the security council, so that they can truly meet the challenges of this 21st century. and we are working more and more to coordinate the european voices within the united nations in the best possible way. i think this is going to be an interesting field of action in the years ahead. at the same time, strong partnerships will be coupled with a higher degree of strategic autonomy for our union. a more credible european defence is essential also for the sake of healthy relationships with our friends, starting with the united states, and yet a more credible european defence would serve first and foremost not our partners, but our citizens and their security. our citizens’ interest calls for stronger cooperation on all security issues from intelligence and anti-terrorism, making the link between internal and external work, to research and development in the fields of defence and security. the strategy does not aim to change the treaties, but to finally apply them in full. the battle groups were already foreseen by the lisbon treaty but too many obstacles have prevented their development. defence cooperation must become the norm, and not the exception, to make our investments more effective, our industry more competitive, and our citizens more secure. the strategy clearly indicates how to perceive these objectives in the years ahead, hopefully in the months ahead, but this will depend very much on the political will to follow up coherently what we have agreed in the strategy. all these commitments will have to be put into practice. the next phase, the implementation of the strategy, will be essential and crucial. the strategy explicitly foresees a revision of the existing strategies – sectoral strategies we already have – and it also plans to devise and implement new, thematic or geographic strategies in line with the priorities that it indicates. so such work must begin now with clear procedures and timeframes agreed by all relevant players and i will discuss this with the foreign ministers already in 10 days’ time at the foreign affairs council. the european union global strategy itself will require a periodic review, to be carried out in consultation with the council, the commission and this parliament on a yearly basis. it will reflect on the state of play of the strategy, pointing out whether and where further implementation must be sought. this will be a political decision and i will be interested obviously to hear parliament’s views on what part of the strategy needs to be prioritised in time. this strategy is about how to make our foreign and security policy more effective and, at the end of the day, deliver to our citizens and their needs. it will need the full support of this parliament to translate this shared vision into common action. i count very much, as always, not only on your support – i know the strategy and its implementation have that – but also on your ideas and on your contribution to this strategy because there is one thing that has been clear to me all along the way – and once again, i would like to thank sandra and parliament for the work done in this direction – this is not just a strategy for the member states; this is just not a strategy for the council; this is not just a strategy for the commission; this is not just a strategy for parliament. this is a strategy for the european union and this is the first step. the strategy begins at home, and the strategy begins by realising that the european union is our common house and we have a common responsibility to make it work.
blue-card question. – colleague, you mentioned that we of course deplore the brexit, but we will have to continue to work closely with the uk – i completely agree – but, at the same time, do you not think that it might be time to deepen the integration of the 27 countries in relation to security and defence and to create a common security and defence force? do you not think that it is time for a european army and also an independent agency to fight terrorism in the european union?
blue-card question. – do you believe that we have a responsibility not to forget about our closest partners, our eastern neighbours – countries which often believe in our european project more than we do ourselves, and who aspire to be part of a common vision: the union of our founding fathers?
mr president, i will start by saying that this is not federica mogherini’s global strategy. but the union’s strategy should be explicitly and formally integrated into the daily actions of all member states in order to become globally relevant. now please allow me to speak in romanian. ca și dumneavoastră, doamnă înalt reprezentant, cred că este timpul să folosim greutatea noastră politică și economică și toate instrumentele pe care le avem la dispoziție pentru a acționa într-o manieră credibilă, pragmatică și responsabilă în toate dimensiunile acțiunii noastre globale. și mă voi referi în mod special la diplomație, securitate și apărare, în condițiile în care cred sincer că securitatea și apărarea trebuie să exprime interesele tuturor celor 27 de state membre, repet, tuturor celor 27 de state membre. în acest sens, în contextul unui cadru de securitate global, amenințat de tot mai multe crize, de noi vulnerabilități și factori de instabilitate politică, aș dori să subliniez importanța priorității securizării uniunii cu cele cinci linii de acțiune puternic interconectate: securitate și apărare, contraterorism, securitate cibernetică, securitate energetică și comunicare strategică. în ceea ce privește securitatea și apărarea, insist asupra unui efort concertat pentru asigurarea securității colective alături de nato, repet, alături de nato, de o manieră complementară și sinergică. ieșirea regatului unit din ue are un impact sever asupra dimensiunii de securitate și apărare, ținând cont de potențialul enorm pe care regatul îl avea și de aceea cred în consolidarea acestei dimensiuni. permiteți-mi să închei, spunând că ideea cooperării cu nato și a antrenării în programe comune a „battlegroups” va contribui la complementaritatea și interoperabilitatea cu alianța.
mr president, someone once said that the test of the seriousness of a strategy is the seriousness of the questions, except that sometimes we risk failing that test. i would like to welcome the adoption of the union's overall strategy and congratulate mrs mogherini for not hesitating, in a difficult context, to present this new strategy, which is both ambitious and realistic. we certainly need realism, as we need to preserve our specificity, that of promoting democracy and protecting individual freedoms. the strategy rightly defines security as the top priority of our external action. this need for increased security both internally and externally is strongly felt by our citizens. they expect us to better manage our common borders and to strengthen our anti-terrorism legislation in order to promote peace and security. the context of brexit is terribly complex, and this requires us to implement these strategies as quickly as possible through concrete actions that will allow us to materialize our regional ambitions as well as our security and defence projects. we have a collective responsibility towards our partners, and in particular - i would like to stress this point - in the field of enlargement. this is not the time to pause enlargement, as some have suggested. we must pursue it. we must continue to meet the expectations of our neighbours. we need to strengthen transatlantic cooperation through nato and our strategic partnership with the united states.
mr president, although we are still reeling from the outcome of the referendum in the uk – one of the leading eu member states on foreign and security policy matters – we must be conscious that current circumstances demand a strong european union to protect its citizens and to act responsibly in our surrounding regions, for our sake and for the sake of people who look to us for help. at a time when our wider neighbouring region – be it in ukraine, syria, or libya – is engulfed in a ring of fire that also threatens the security of our citizens, europe needs a common sense of direction and purpose and a vision that is up to the challenges we face. we cannot remain complacent and keep outsourcing security to the us. if we had not been aware of this until now, then the message became clear in the current american presidential campaign. therefore, saluting in particular priorities such as the pre—emptive consolidation of peace, i welcome the creation of a global security vision for europe and hope that it will help fulfil our potential to contribute to peace and security in the world.
in writing. – the global strategy document has finally been presented (and discussed, too). this document is more than welcome, it is necessary. not only has the international environment altered since 2003, but it has done so to our disadvantage: europe is confronted with conflicts all around it, which already spill into our own house! the first merit of the document is that it places security and defence at its heart, responding to the current concerns of european citizens. there are two issues related to the document which i consider worth mentioning. the first is its ownership: the fact that it was drawn up by the vp/hr – who was tasked with this by the council – and that it was made public just before presentation is amplifying the problem of the member states identifying with it. the second issue is the necessity to make the member states manifest the political will to deal properly and comprehensively with conflicts; indeed, the document envisages an active involvement of the eu in all stages of those conflicts – prevention, management and resolution. the fact that france and germany have recently issued a common document indicating their willingness to do just that is a good indication in that respect.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i welcome the release of the middle east quartet report. i will invite all my colleagues – even those who speak without reading it – to read it carefully because the report wisely points out most of the difficulties we are facing today when it comes to re-launching negotiations on the middle east peace process. the proof is that since friday we have heard criticism from both sides and it is impossible for it to be both right and wrong at the same time. i also share your concern that continuing in the current impasse will make the prospect of the two—state solution remote, although that is the only outcome for achieving an enduring peace that meets both israeli and palestinian needs and aspirations. therefore, our group is committed to supporting all realistic peace initiatives, including the arab peace initiative, which seems to be welcomed the most by all sides. we fully support your assessment of the situation and, while condemning all incitement and violence on the ground, it is important to keep in mind that there are not many palestinians and israelis today who still nourish the hope of a solution in the near future. there are not many young palestinians today who still hope for a better life and opportunities in their countries. this is particularly worrying in gaza, where the dire humanitarian situation is making everyday life so difficult for many human beings. this is an alarming fact that can only fuel further violence and exacerbate the conflict. there is an urgent need to overcome the stalemate, and i call on the political leadership on both sides to assume their historic responsibility for the future of their people.
mr president, in the hours before the publication of the middle east quartet report, there was a renewed upsurge of violence in the palestinian territories and in israel. the horrific images of the murder of hallel yaffa ariel, the 13-year-old girl stabbed to death in her bed, remind us that the situation is intolerable. that is why i welcome the fact that the issue of violence, including terrorist attacks against civilians and incitement to violence, is central to the report published last friday. i would also like to draw mrs auken's attention to this, because sometimes she seems to ignore this and to take the palestinian cause from a very particular point of view. we remain committed to a two-state solution, of course, but it is obvious that this is not enough. i believe that hope must be restored in a political solution to the conflict, and i agree with you, mrs mogherini, when you say that the responsibility for peace rests without doubt on both sides. we cannot substitute them for them, even though we know that only direct negotiations will lead to peace. for now, i think the reality is that we have to be more modest. the priority must be to restore trust between the parties and to this end, we must try, as far as possible, to play the role of an honest broker. to be perceived as such in the region, our positions must be balanced and in this sense the quartet report represents a step forward.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, colleague, i agree with what you have said, i agree with what the commissioner has said: it is not an option to isolate ourselves as the european union. but i'm surprised you didn't remember something the commissioner didn't remember. do you not think that the european union should establish very clear trade defence measures, which we do not have now and we are continuing to de-industrialise the european union because of the lack of trade defence measures and instruments?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would first like to thank the high representative for this new strategy on china. the last document of this kind dates back to 2006. as you have just mentioned, madam high representative, many things have changed in these 10 years on both sides. china is today a key player in the international arena and a fundamental partner for the eu – with different views on many issues, of course, but there is no doubt that cooperation and coordination between the eu and china are fundamental for both. i welcome your call for eu action on china to be united and coherent, and i hope the member states will finally be ready to practise it. madam high representative, you have shown the awareness of what the eu and china can do together, bilaterally but also in international fora – i am thinking of the g20 which will soon be hosted by china – but also on counterterrorism, cyber security, climate change and other reciprocal investment under the juncker plan and ‘one belt, one road’, where it will be necessary to address also the issue of protecting key critical infrastructure projects, including energy ones. and then we have to think of africa, where the respective investment and development policies can be coordinated, the iranian deal and peacekeeping in south sudan or in the gulf area fighting against piracy. do not forget that one example where europe and china can cooperate together is the fact that china is building up an emissions trading system (ets) which is inspired by technical assistance from europe or the fact that china has established three main courts in its intellectual property rights (ipr) project. let me conclude by saying that after the brexit we have to accept that the only way to cope with china is to be the eu: any single member state can fail.
madam president, i myself strongly support closer relations between the eu and china, and there are many areas of cooperation, from the economy to culture and research. however, i am pleased to see that the new eu strategy on china does not forget the issues of human rights, the rule of law and civil society. the european union continues to urge china to release political prisoners and respect the rights of minority individuals, not least in tibet and xinjiang. i believe that the european union cannot afford to allow closer relations to go hand in hand with the improvement in the human rights situation in china. europe needs china, but china needs us, and the strategy also talks about mutual benefits in political and economic terms. our chinese friends are often sensitive to the human rights situation in tibet being discussed in international forums, but they must accept that the eu can only develop closer relations with regions that value freedom of expression as a fundamental value. i hope that the commission will adopt the same approach when it comes to implementing the strategy.
madam president, madam high representative mogherini, on december 11th, the 15th paragraph of the china's accession to the world trade organization is due to expire. this is very important from the point of view of the granting of market economy status to china, which is of concern to both parties. tensions in eu-china relations may have consequences that are difficult to predict, starting from the evolution of political, politico-diplomatic and economic relations between the eu and china, as well as the bilateral investment agreement. i think the eu needs to adopt solutions based on consultation and discussion with china, solutions that are valid for all states because it would be difficult to anticipate, difficult to justify politically a reference to china alone. we expect a positive outcome that excludes any risk of economic confrontation and that does not add a new crisis from which there would be no winners.
mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the adoption by the council of the 2015 annual report. as i was the rapporteur for this parliament on the previous report, i would like to recall what i have already mentioned, namely that i would like to see in this report approved by the council a more analytical approach where both successes and failures are shown because sometimes there are also failures in our action. i believe that an inventory of conferences and statements is not enough and i always advocate more concrete examples in this area. i also hope that the report which parliament will be drawing up this year will give a prominent place to democracy. we have been emphasizing this point for the past year and i would like to remind you of it. i also take advantage of the fact that mrs vergiat is still here to tell her that i believe that the reference she made about commissioner mimica is not based on facts. we know that security and development must be dealt with together and that they can no longer be separated, and i regret to see the representative of the far left attributing the financing of operations against the sudanese people to mr mimica and the commission. i believe that using these sources is also denigrating europe, and there is a risk that europe will be harmed, not only by the far right - which is very serious - but also by the far left, which is telling lies about the commission's actions.
indeed, what i question is not the person or the convictions of mrs vergiat, but the quality of the information. in her speech she said that the commission was financing actions directed by the sudanese president against the people. this is completely wrong, and such a denigration of europe on these grounds is just as serious as what the far right is doing. so the far left and the far right are equally guilty of what is happening in public opinion in europe today.
mr president, against the backdrop of instability and conflict in the middle east and regions of asia and africa, the migration crisis and terrorist attacks against civilians, 2015 was a year marked by serious human rights violations. the european union has a duty to respond to these challenges through better targeted action, by ensuring better policy coherence, in particular in the areas of migration, trade, development cooperation and the fight against terrorism. considers it a priority for the european union to adopt a strategy for the middle east and north africa region that takes into account all the factors underlying terrorism and radicalisation, adopts a representative approach involving civil society and is in line with international human rights standards. in my view, the focus should be on preventing terrorism by tackling radicalisation, recruitment and financing, and addressing other factors such as poverty and the proliferation of weapons. we can only succeed in fighting terrorism by means that are compatible with human rights.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, just one month ago i was in new york for my annual address to the united nations security council, and each and every member of the council praised our european union and our excellent cooperation with the un system. let me tell you openly that the mood one year ago was not exactly the same, and i believe that the change is due to the hard work we have done during this year, during this current session of the un general assembly. in a minute i will come to your recommendations for the year ahead, but before that i would like to look back quickly to last year’s general assembly and what has happened since then. in september 2015 in new york, we decided to build on the format that made the iranian deal possible and to create the international syria support group. in new york again, the quartet reconvened after a long time, in september last year, engaging key arab states in the conversation, and the result of that process was also discussed here this afternoon, the quartet report on the middle east that we just presented. another issue: right after the general assembly, the security council endorsed our naval operation sophia to fight people smugglers and their networks. and let me announce to you tonight, with a little bit of joy at the end of this long afternoon of painful discussions, that a baby was born today on one of our ships. so i would like to thank and congratulate our military staff for the work they are doing at sea. sometimes we also bring life and save lives. last month again, the council voted unanimously to authorise operation sophia to enforce an arms embargo off the coast of libya. as you have seen this year, these are just some examples. we have put the un at the centre of the decision-making process on all major foreign policy issues, exactly as it should be, and the european union had a key role in this, exactly in line with our global strategy discussed this afternoon. there is a lot of work to do on all these issues and on many others. let me mention the conference on afghanistan that we will host in brussels in october, which we are preparing in the light of the un general assembly last september; and, of course, our work with the un goes well beyond mediation. so, i come now to your recommendations on the 71st session of the un general assembly and the excellent report we are discussing tonight. as you mentioned, member states will also discuss this report and the priorities it indicates, and will adopt conclusions in the foreign affairs council on 18 july. the year 2015 has been an impressive one for international agreements and global governance, with cop 21, the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the revision of the un strategies for peace cooperation, the peace-building architecture and the women, peace and security resolution. as the report notes, the strategic visions on peace and security of the un and the eu are evolving in precisely the same direction. if you look at the global strategy and look at resolution 1325, we agree on the link between security and development: very much so. we agree on the need for a culture of prevention. we agree on a long-term, multi-level approach to security, one that looks at human security and put people at the centre of our work for security. just like our own strategy, the un strategies will now have to be implemented on the ground and, as the report states, the two implementation processes can and should go hand-in-hand, for instance on strengthening cooperation between un operations and common security and defence policy (csdp) missions and on battle groups. the same goes for the sdgs. i fully agree with you when you say that we have to translate our commitment into concrete action. the eu was key in achieving the result of agreeing on the sdgs. now the world looks to us to show the way on implementation, and there we will need to work, using a mix of tools, on development and security and on improving good governance as well as partnering on private investment and economic development. as you know, the commission is preparing two initiatives related to this: mapping communication on the eu internal and external actions contributing to the implementation of the sdgs; and a revision of eu development policy in the light of the 2030 agenda. our world has clearly changed and is changing, and our tools must also adapt to the new reality we are facing. but is not just about us and the actions we put in place. yes, the eu is the main contributor to the un system and to its peacekeeping operations. yes, we are the leading humanitarian player worldwide, and that is not about to change. but we must also realise that our efforts will not be enough if our actions are not rooted in strong cooperation with our partners. here is why the un must necessarily be at the centre of our policies: a world of global challenges must be a world of global responses and global partnerships. on climate change, we are finally on the right track with the paris agreement, which is the cornerstone of emerging global governance for climate. we are now pressing for early ratification and entry into force, and it is crucial to build on the momentum through continued cooperation on the implementation of the intended nationally determined contributions. we remain committed not only to implementing our ambitious domestic commitments but also to providing the necessary financial and technical assistance to developing countries in transition towards a low-carbon economy. apart from climate, there are the two further issues i would mention. counter-terrorism, of course, is a field in which each country has its specificities. the paths to radicalisation are different, but some of the patterns are common, as was clarified by the un secretary-general’s action plan on preventing violent extremism, and in all cases prevention and partnership are the most powerful tools in our hands. in this field, cooperation is vital, as it is also vital to work across borders in the fight against terrorist financing, which is key in our work with the un. last, but by no means least, there is migration. let me conclude on the global migration crisis. we too often forget that this is a global crisis and not a european one. never have so many people been on the move in the world, but it is also true that the world has the resources to face the crisis. we can manage – if we manage it all together. this means that not only countries of origin, countries of transit and host countries but also state and non-state actors, from local government to the private sector, are called upon to play their role and assume their responsibilities. alone, no one will manage, but together we can and we will, and we have finally understood this. i was glad to see that secretary-general ban ki-moon called for a un summit in september in new york to define a global approach – a global compact – on migration, with concrete commitments in relation to the movement of migrants and refugees, and that president obama, the following day, organised a global summit on refugees and the need for concrete commitments. both events have the potential finally to constitute a turning point towards globally shared responsibility, a global framework for cooperation on migration and stronger international protection of refugees. if this finally becomes a global commitment, it will be largely as a result of our european work within the un system. a stronger european union, a safer european union, needs a stronger international system with the un at its core, and the strong european union can be the best champion of more effective global governance. this will be an incredible year for the un. after the election of the new secretary-general it will be time to discuss reform of the un, in line with the new strategic agenda for the next 15 years, and our aspiration cannot be simply to preserve the existing system. we need to transform it, to make it stronger and truly to meet our citizens’ and the world’s needs. this report helps us in that direction.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague andrey on his commitment and work on this recommendation to the council. our group has been very insistent that after the break last year we should resume the practice of expressing parliament's position before this very important annual meeting at multilateral level. the clearest expression of multilateralism is, of course, the united nations general assembly. for us in the european union this is a very important principle. this is why we support not only the reform of un institutions but also efforts to strengthen peacekeeping operations and the overall capacity of the organisation to respond to conflicts. i supported several amendments in the committee on foreign affairs, stressing the need to respond to the current challenges of the 'peace and security' chapter. it is important to cooperate with the un - that is what i said in those amendments - to strengthen the role and capacity of regional and subregional organisations in peacekeeping, conflict prevention and crisis management. but in this sense, of course, we must increase cooperation with these organizations and with the un. finally, as the parliament's permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development (pcd), i would like to welcome the inclusion of the points relating to the implementation of the 2030 programme. in particular, i believe it is very important to stress the need to strengthen the cpd within the un structures in order to integrate more effectively all dimensions of sustainable development. it is also essential to better reflect the link between peace, security and development in policies adopted at international level.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy vpc/hr. – mr president, i will be very short – i would just like to thank you for the debates and thank the rapporteur for the excellent work awaiting the vote tomorrow. i will make sure – and i should probably jump over to the council’s side to say this – that this debate and the report will be taken fully into consideration by the ministers on 18 july so that we can come in december with a common and very solid base for joint work.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, may i first say that this is my first appearance before the european parliament since my country, the slovak republic, took over the presidency of the council for the first time last week. it is important for me to say that we are confident, that we, on behalf of the council, are ready to cooperate very closely with this chamber, with the european parliament. we have clearly defined priorities and i rely on you that we can bring tangible results because i think this is more important than ever before. thank you for this opportunity to discuss the issue of protection of whistle-blowers. indeed, a number of events and cases in recent years have highlighted the role of whistle-blowers and generated an eu-wide and, i daresay, global conversation on this issue. when acting for the purpose of protecting the general public interest, whistle-blowers play an important role in disclosing wrong-doing and dangers to society and therefore they deserve legal protection. it is crucial that they can signal and sound an alert without having to pay for it with their job, their reputation and even their life. the protection of whistle-blowers is currently the subject of several international instruments, for instance, the oecd guidance of 2012. at the same time, the council of europe recommendation of 2014 encourages member states to have in place a framework for whistle-blower protection and sets out a series of principles in this respect. in our work at the level of the european union, several pieces of legislation include provisions on whistle-blowing; for instance, the protection of whistle-blowers and journalistic sources was one of the issues discussed during the negotiations on the trade secrets directive last year. the compromise provision offers protection to whistle-blowers when revealing misconduct or illegal activity, provided notably that they have acted in the public interest. likewise, provisions on whistle-blowing are included in several directives or regulations in the area of financial services. provisions also exist, let me underline, at the level of member states and notably in the context of the council of europe recommendation that i have mentioned earlier. as far as overarching or horizontal legislation at eu level on the issue is concerned, it would be up to the commission to consider the possibilities, and i have taken note of parliament’s call for a clear legal framework on the protection of whistle-blowers before the end of june this year. i look forward to hearing the views of the vice-president of the commission on this issue. the council has not yet discussed the matter as such, but it has in a broader sense discussed integrity policies in the public and in the private sector across the eu. within its institutional powers, the council is prepared to consider relevant commission initiatives for eu measures deemed necessary in this respect. furthermore, i know that the commission yesterday adopted a very important communication on further measures to enhance transparency and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, which also addresses the issue of protection of whistle-blowers. finally, the commission will notably assess the scope for a horizontal and further sectoral action at eu level, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i welcome this opportunity to discuss the protection of whistle-blowers after the debate which took place in this house four months ago. the activity of whistle-blowers can be indispensable to identifying wrongdoings where institutional processes of accountability do not function appropriately. the protection of whistle-blowers in the public and private sectors thereby contributes to addressing mismanagement and irregularities, including criminal activities. the commission therefore strongly supports the objective of protecting whistle-blowers. the commission has taken steps to protect whistle-blowers in eu sectoral legislation, as well as measures within the eu institutions in the guidelines on whistle-blowing adopted on 6 december 2012. for example, member states are required to establish effective and reliable mechanisms to encourage the reporting to competent authorities of potential and actual breaches of anti-money laundering rules. financial institutions and other entities have to put in place procedures for employees or persons in a comparable position who report breaches of those rules. similar requirements are in place for law firms and audit firms and in other areas of eu law such as market abuse, collective investment in transferable securities and trade secrets. recent mass leaks such as the panama papers have once again highlighted the important role of whistle-blowers in journalistic investigations and, in this particular case, in exposing tax avoidance and tax evasion. for this reason, the commission yesterday issued a communication in which it outlines the progress made so far and the priority it gives to strengthening the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and illicit financial activity and to promoting tax good governance globally. in particular, the commission is facilitating research and exchange of best practices to encourage improved protection at national level and will assess the scope for further action at eu level. in this respect, i would like to draw your attention to the public consultation launched by the commission on media pluralism and democracy in the run—up to the second annual colloquium on fundamental rights, which will take place on 17 and 18 november 2016. this consultation, open until mid—july, seeks inter alia to gather the views of a broad range of stakeholders on how to address the pressure put on journalistic sources, including whistle-blowers. the current discussions that you are holding in this house contribute to the reflections on the possible eu response. to sum up, a lot has already been done at eu level in fields where the eu has competence. with a view to strengthening the protection of whistle-blowers, we need to carefully assess the scope for horizontal and further sectoral action at eu level, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i am glad to listen to your views on this issue, and the commission is open for your ideas.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we certainly want to know what is happening in the european and national institutions, i.e. what illegalities are taking place in these institutions. that is why we need courageous, conscientious, dignified people to work in these european and national institutions and to expose the illegalities in these institutions. they're not whistleblowers, again, they're not betraying the institution. on the contrary, it defends the public interest to stop theft, forgery, corruption and all the other evils that can happen in european and national institutions or in private institutions. we have to protect them and we don't have a proper procedure for protecting them. we have to protect them, their names must never be known, or they lose their jobs. and i, as a member of the european parliament, have used and continue to use in my work people from the european institutions who have told me and tell me and give me documents and information about what is happening illegally in these institutions. we have to protect them.
mr president, the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu, signed by all 28 eu member states and ratified by 27. it is also the first time that a un body has monitored the eu's compliance with its international human rights obligations. these factors make the relevant regulatory legislation mandatory in the eu and its member states, so that people with disabilities can feel that they are making real progress, that the eu is listening to their problems and their special needs. i think that in other human rights areas this can be achieved, this could be the recipe for success: the eu should join - as the lisbon treaty allows - other human rights conventions, so that provisions that are currently only at the recommendation level, but which have already been signed and ratified by most eu member states, can be verified and enforced.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to start by congratulating our colleague, mrs helga, on her work, not just on this report. human rights are not negotiable, they are applied and this report says what we need, but the commission, the council and the member states must find the way to treat people equally. we don't have two kinds of people, we have people. there must be access to jobs in the labour market, to tourism, to education, to culture, to all the diversity of life. that is why, as a member of the european parliament in the tran and imco committees, i have argued and i still argue in my country that we must find ways to educate and educate the population to have a fair treatment for these colleagues of ours, these people, these people who have other physical possibilities. i believe that the commission and the member states have this responsibility to implement what we are now asking for in this report and i congratulate helga once again.
in writing. the integration of people with disabilities into society must remain a priority for the european union, and this requires the removal of all barriers and obstacles to their integration into education systems, the workplace, public life and the community to which they belong. i support the rapporteur's proposal to organise information, awareness and training campaigns on the rights of persons with disabilities, their diversity, skills and talents, on the one hand, and to help remove the obstacles that limit their participation in society, on the other. the european union and the member states should also cooperate to take the necessary measures to prevent all forms of abuse of persons with disabilities, in particular women and children, and to implement harmonised policies to mainstream the rights of persons with disabilities in all eu policies and programmes of international cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first like to welcome the presence of the high representative in our debate and then add that i have proposed to my group to draw up an emergency resolution on the situation of people with albinism in africa and i welcome the support of the other political groups. the starting point was the report by amnesty international on malawi, which was presented recently. but as other colleagues have mentioned, brutal attacks and savage murders have occurred in other countries. these are tanzania, the democratic republic of congo, burundi and côte d'ivoire. in all these countries, horrible crimes are being committed against people with albinism and the idea was to put this on the agenda for today's sitting. i am glad to see that all the groups are concerned about the situation of these populations.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all let me say that this is not only an issue related to human rights. it is, and it is a fundamental one, but it is also, as many of you mentioned, an issue that risks fuelling tensions in a region that definitely does not need further tensions. so, it is a human rights issue, but it is also an extremely serious geopolitical concern. what can we do? first of all, what we have done already, because i’ve heard in this chamber today suggestions or proposals. let me remind you all –maybe you know already, but still a reminder may be needed today – that our eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, visited bahrain for the second time last year and had a comprehensive visit that allowed frank discussions on all issues and, in the follow-up of that visit, we established an eu—bahrain human rights working group, that met for the first time this year, in april. so that kind of working relation on these issues, including all difficult issues we have on the table, is ongoing. if i have to assess whether that has brought results today, i have to say, obviously, that we are facing extremely difficult situations, but the suggestion of establishing a working group on these issues with them and having our human rights representative working and visiting the country constantly is there, as well as when it comes to statements and declarations – the last one i think we released just yesterday – to highlight our preoccupation and concern at the deterioration of the human rights situation in the country. so we are constantly working on this. many worrying pieces of news have come out of bahrain recently, and you mentioned them all. let me stress that this includes the ongoing judicial proceedings on the suspension of al-wefaq, the sentence against the secretary—general, ali salman, as well as the re-arrest of nabeel rajab and measures preventing activists from travelling abroad. as i said, all this is worrying in itself, but it will also hamper national reconciliation in the kingdom and will have a spillover effect in the whole region that is extremely relevant. so we expect these decisions to be reconsidered in a fair and transparent manner in full respect of bahrain’s international obligations and its own internal constitution. we will continue to liaise closely with all eu member states that are present in manama to attend trials of prominent activists and advocate transparent judicial proceedings. on a number of occasions, such as during the visit of stavros lambrinidis, we have called for the release of those arrested in the context of peaceful political activities and we are constantly doing that. we know very well that speaking up on this is important from the eu side as such. this is crucial, not only on the issue of human rights in itself, but it is also crucial – as was mentioned in one of the last interventions – to overcome the deep polarisation of the country itself. so, it would be beneficial for bahrain itself, for its stability and its internal healthy societal development, to go in that direction. the eu, both in brussels and through our delegation, will keep working to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is consistent with bahrain’s international commitment, but also with the recommendation set out by the bahrain independent commission of inquiry and the recommendations made during bahrain’s universal periodic review process. it is first and foremost, as i said, in bahrain’s national interest to facilitate and support national reconciliation through a peaceful, inclusive reform process, as was mentioned, and as there were commitments during 2011. it is – and i would like to stress this – in regional and global, including european, interests to avoid new tensions arising in a region of the world that cannot afford further tensions. on the contrary, the region needs reconciliation and de-escalation of political confrontation and this is exactly the work that we doing on a daily basis, both speaking up and engaging quietly not only to promote human rights in the country, but also to avoid further tension in the region.
in writing. the human rights situation in bahrain is getting worse by the day. last month, activist nabeel rajab was arrested again. he was charged with "spreading rumors in wartime" and "insulting the authorities" just for some tweets, and both charges carry 13 years in prison. the recent arrest is part of a series of abuses against political dissidents, human rights activists and the opposition in general. also in june, the bahraini government prevented a delegation of activists from traveling to the human rights council in geneva for its 32nd session. just 2 days after this event, the authorities suspended the activity of the largest opposition party, al-wefaq. sheikh ali salman, the group's chairman, was arrested (july 2015). on 21 june, i signed a letter with other meps to ms mogherini calling for the release of nabeel rajab. it's important to act together. i call on the bahraini authorities to release activists, human rights defenders from prison, lift travel bans and stop using citizenship withdrawal as a form of intimidation of opposition or punishment!
in writing. ‒ the european union together with its member states is the largest financial contributor to the un, providing half of all contributions to its funds and programmes. the un general assembly is the most appropriate venue for the elaboration of multilateral agreements on new challenges such as information and hybrid warfare, cyber threats, bioengineering and the proliferation of dual-use technologies. security at the level of the european union is increasingly fragile due to a large number of new and long-standing challenges, including violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented waves of migration and climate change, which are impossible to solve at national level and require regional and global responses. i voted for a fundamental change to empower the un to organize and drive the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union must play a proactive role in building a united nations organisation that is able to contribute effectively to global solutions, to peace and security, to development, to human rights, to democracy and to an international order based on the rule of law in the context of addressing global crises, problems and threats.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the inclusions in the report of issues that take into account the three pillars of the united nations which are peace and security, development and human rights. particularly, the focus on the role of women in the peace process, the support for representation of women at all levels of the decision-making process, the inclusion of children’s rights and the definition of responsibility to protect (r2p) and the human security concept to be closer to gender equality and human rights. i hope that this session will prioritise the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and global disarmament, a human-rights based approach to migration, and special attention to women and children. we must show zero tolerance for the death penalty, continue to support the international criminal court and the ratification of the kampala amendments and the accountability of perpetrators in case of genocides. finally, we must give our strongest support for a woman as the new secretary general.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that proposes a recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. we must support a human-rights based approach to migration and the role of women in the peace process. moreover, it is crucial to keep pushing for the abolishment of the death penalty across the world.
in writing. ‒ the united nations general assembly is one of the six principal organs of the united nations and the only one in which all member nations have equal representation. i voted for this report that will improve peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development and climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and voted in favour of it because i believe that peace, security, economic development, the protection of human rights, democracy are the main foundations of the european union, and the reiteration of these values, in a strong partnership with the united nations, can generate more concrete actions to protect them at international level. in the context of an unstable security situation caused mainly by the terrorist threat, i support the report's recommendations to promote and intensify interstate efforts to combat terrorist organisations. i also welcome the strengthening of action to protect and respect human rights in third countries, universal rights and those agreed in the un conventions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. cooperation between the eu and the un will help address the increasingly unstable security environment and global challenges such as terrorism, unprecedented migration, and climate change. these problems require both regional and global responses. an approach based on human rights should be adopted for the migration crisis, with special attention paid to women and children to prevent trafficking and exploitation, and a focus on children’s rights including the right to water, healthcare, sanitation and education. these actions will support desperate people fleeing the appalling conditions of war and persecution.
in writing. ‒ every year the european parliament sends recommendations to the council for the annual meeting of the united nations general assembly. these recommendations are sent based on the three pillars of the united nations, which are peace and security, human rights and development. this year`s amendments to the draft recommendations concern issues closely connected to the realities of today’s world, such as lgbti rights, women’s representation at all levels of the decision-making process, zero tolerance for death penalty, and children`s rights. i support these amendments, as they address issues that are of great concern for myself and the alliance of socialists & democrats.
in writing. ‒ the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is different from other human rights treaties in that persons with disabilities and their representative organisations have been included in the process from the drafting stages, so there is no human rights hierarchy and discrimination on the grounds of disability must be addressed in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including multiple discrimination. as regards equal treatment, it is understood that failure to provide for adequate accommodation is discrimination, as the equal treatment directive does not refer to it and is therefore not in conformity with the convention in these respects. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, considering that people with disabilities need to be much more closely monitored and cared for, but not least we must fight for the disappearance of the discrimination to which they are subject.
in writing. ‒ one in six people in the european union suffers from a disability of a mild to severe degree. the eu has acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, following the completion of the ratification process, the eu is the first international organisation to become an official party to the convention. the convention obliges parties to ensure that persons with disabilities can fully exercise their rights on an equal basis with all other citizens. for the eu, this means ensuring that all community legislation, policies and programmes comply with the provisions of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, within the limits of the eu's competences. i support the ep report because i believe that, even today, despite all the efforts made by the union, these people are prevented from participating fully in society and the economy because of physical or other obstacles and because of discrimination. the eu should step up its efforts to promote a safe and enabling environment, also taking into account the concerns of the uncrpd committee regarding the lack of a clear union strategy for the implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ in december 2010, the eu acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, becoming the first regional integration organisation to sign, and the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu as a single entity. at present, all 28 eu member states have signed the convention and 25 have ratified it, except finland and ireland. at the moment, the netherlands is about to accede to the convention. i voted for the transformation of the institutions of the european union into role models for the implementation of the convention. discrimination on the grounds of disability must be addressed in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including multiple discrimination.
in writing. ‒ given that there are 80 million people with disabilities in the european union, 46 million of whom are women and girls, representing around 16% of the total female population in the eu, i believe that both the member states and the commission must take action to combat all forms of discrimination, including multiple discrimination, discrimination through association and intersectional discrimination on the grounds of disability, with special attention to women and children with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu has to make every possible effort to combat discrimination based on disability when defining and implementing its policies and activities. the eu should lead the way as regards respect for and promotion of human rights. i therefore strongly support the call on the commission to consolidate and make a proposal for a genuine structured dialogue between the eu and organisations representing persons with disabilities. persons with disabilities are often excluded from the mainstream of society and denied their human rights. we must be strongly committed to promoting, defending and reinforcing the human rights of all persons with disabilities. equal treatment and positive measures and policies for women with disabilities and mothers of children with disabilities is a fundamental human right and an ethical obligation. all persons with all types of disabilities must enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. it is terrible that persons with disabilities are sometimes isolated from society and denied their human rights. it is imperative that all persons should benefit from human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities elaborates in detail the rights of persons with disabilities and sets out the code of implementation. the eu acceded to the convention in december 2010. i voted for this report that concentrates on the matters highlighted in its concluding observations with a special regard towards women and children with disabilities, older persons and individuals with complex support needs.
in writing. ‒ my support for this report stems from the recognition that protecting the rights of the disabled is an integral part of the eu’s commitment to human rights, particularly as there are approximately 80 million eu citizens with disabilities. the report reflects the results of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in the eu. not only does it welcome the fact that, for the first time, the eu’s fulfilment of its international human rights obligations has been reviewed by a un treaty body, but it also reflects the consideration that the eu is committed to equality and respect for human rights. i also support the report because it underlines the aspects that could be improved in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states are among the world's leading defenders of the rights of persons with disabilities. in december 2010, the eu was the first regional integration organisation to sign the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd), with all member states having signed and 25 ratified the convention. the commission presented the initial report in june 2014 for eu ratification and the european parliament formulated its opinions on the report. the uncrpd committee sent its comments, with a view to the commission's reply by september 2016. this report shall include the european parliament's observations on those documents and its own proposals. these include the concrete implementation of the convention by the european institutions, the fight against discrimination on the basis of disability (in particular among women, children, the elderly and people with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities), the appropriate design of workplaces and public spaces, equal treatment, the involvement of relevant organisations in the development of specific legislation. the european ombudsman, the eu agency for fundamental rights and the european disability forum were also involved in the preparation of parliament's opinions. i express my support for the adoption of this important document.
in writing. ‒ the energy drink industry’s voluntary code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks only commits not to market energy drinks to children under the age of 12. adolescents represent the largest group of energy-drink consumers, 68% of whom regularly consume energy drinks. these beverages can contain up to 27g of sugar per 250 ml, more than the world health organization’s recommendation that adults and children receive no more than 10% of their daily energy intake from free sugars and that a further reduction to below 5% (approximately 25g) per day would provide additional health benefits. the european food safety authority (efsa) has also found evidence that a high intake of sugar in the form of sweetened beverages might contribute to weight gain. therefore, i voted against the adoption of the draft commission regulation since excessive consumption of energy drinks has been linked to headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them. member states should introduce rules on the marketing of beverages and food with high caffeine content to children and adolescents so that the use of nutrition and health claim will not be ambiguous or misleading.
in writing. ‒ it is not acceptable to have products targeting children and adolescents through misleading health claims. i fully support the effort to stop these health claims from being used.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution regarding permitted health claims made on foods because i do not agree with the final version of the resolution that was proposed for voting in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the list of permitted health claims on foodstuffs, excluding those aimed at reducing the risk of disease and children's development and health, because by validating this motion for a resolution the commission is obliged to withdraw its proposal for a regulation as it is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. this motion for a resolution is adopted in the context of the commission's failure to establish specific nutritional profiles for certain foods, in particular energy drinks which are widely consumed. i think it's extremely important that this information is displayed and made clear, so that we know exactly which of these products are or are not beneficial to the population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection and i supported amendments one and four in favour of nutrient profiles. it is disappointing that the commission has not fulfilled its obligations under the health and nutrition claims regulation to ensure that only healthy foods carry health claims. this particular proposal by the commission would allow health claims on energy drinks despite their high sugar content. given the evidence that children regularly consume these drinks, and considering the childhood obesity crisis, it is of great concern that such products with high sugar content could be labelled ‘healthy’. in addition to nutrient profiles, we urgently need effective policies to reduce the marketing of unhealthy foods to children as part of a preventative approach to health care.
mr president, the free movement of goods is one of the four fundamental values of the european union. however, the imposition by the authorities of specific market conditions or requirements aimed at protecting national products is unfortunately a common practice. at the same time, we cannot ignore that the russian embargo has caused serious disruption to markets even in states that did not have direct relations with russia, being invaded by products that are sold below the production price and often under the national brand, thus misleading buyers. this is possible because farmers in these countries have previously benefited from crisis intervention measures by the european commission. mandatory country of origin labelling of products, monitoring by the commission of trade flows and the simultaneous removal of non-tariff barriers must be able to ensure both the free movement of goods and to provide consumers with guarantees as to the quality and origin of the products purchased.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am happy to be here today to discuss the very important and really timely issue of the application of national legislation on the minimum wage in the road transport sector. as you will know, two member states recently decided to apply their minimum wage laws to drivers from other member states active in road transport operations: germany in 2015 and france from last friday, 1 july 2016. we need to join our forces and coordinate our efforts to move towards a single european transport area in which road transport services are not only safe and efficient, but at the same time socially responsible. only then can road transport contribute adequately to a fairer and deeper internal market – one of the key priorities set by president juncker for this commission – a market which is shaped by people for people, which respects workers’ rights and contributes to the developing society and economy within the eu. as regards especially the introduction of minimum wages, the commission welcomes such national measures. this is clearly in line with the social policy commitments of the commission. however, such national measures must be fully compatible with eu law, notably the treaty principles on free movement of goods and the freedom to provide services. this implies, for example, that any restriction of such freedom must be necessary and proportionate in view of the objectives pursued. let me be very clear. the commission fully supports the principle of the minimum wage. however, we consider that the systemic application of the minimum wage by france and germany to all international transport operations touching their respective territories restricts in a disproportionate manner the freedom to provide services and the free movement of goods. because of the highly mobile nature of workers in road transport, a driver often works for very short periods of time in several member states in the course of international transport operations. the application of national measures regarding minimum rates of pay to even a very short—lived presence would create an unjustified and disproportionate administrative burden on road transport operations, without applicable benefits for their workers. the commission has already taken the initiative to have in—depth discussions with the french and german authorities on this issue. unfortunately, we failed to find an amicable solution in that context. the commission also undertook a thorough legal assessment of their national measures. on this basis, the commission decided on 16 june to open an infringement procedure with respect to france and to proceed further with the current infringement case with germany. the german and french cases also demonstrate that the implementation of the posting of workers directive to road transport is raising particular legal questions and particular difficulties. it is also clear that all member states potentially face these same questions and difficulties. this is why they call for an eu solution. this is necessary to prevent the emergence of uncoordinated national measures, fragmenting the internal market. the commission already recognised this fact on 8 march 2016 when it adopted its proposal to amend the posting of workers directive. in that proposal, the commission announced its intention to clarify the application of the directive to road transport in the context of the sector—specific legislation. we are currently working on finding the most appropriate solution at eu level to address these challenges. this is done as part of our review of the road transport legislation. this review should lead to presenting a series of road initiatives in 2017. we intend to take advantage of these legal proposals to propose rules to clarify the application of the posting of workers directive to road transport. our objective will be to design effective enforcement mechanisms which combine the objectives of the internal market, fair competition and the protection of workers’ rights.
mr president, our colleague mentioned that the laws in question hit especially hard the competitiveness of numerous small and medium—sized companies. do you not think – and this is, let us say, my appeal to the commission – that it should have to inform us on its position concerning the application of minimum wage laws in the transport sector, from the point of view of the need to protect the single market and the freedom to provide... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the single market is an area without internal frontiers in which persons, goods, services and capital move freely on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition. unfortunately, in some western european member states, minimum wage laws are being introduced in the transport sector, invoking the notion of social dumping, with reference to those in eastern europe, which are unfairly accused of unfair competition. these rules shall also apply to persons who are only temporarily employed in their territories. in germany, for example, foreign hauliers of goods and passengers are required to pay a minimum wage of €8.5 per hour, and france is preparing to do the same. such legislation seriously affects the proper functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness of smes. the financial possibilities of the eastern states' transport companies to pay their employees at a certain required level cannot be compared with those of the western states, and a different approach could lead to the end of some transport operators. i believe that measures must be taken at eu transport market level to achieve fair competition by combating fraudulent practices and eliminating illegal labour, the real problems identified. the regulation of a minimum wage would only lead to the fragmentation and restriction of access to this market.
in writing. the infringement procedure against germany in respect of the minimum wage act (milog) lasted more than one year. this leads to legal uncertainty and lack of clarity of european economic activities in the short term. the commission must find a way to end this situation and strike a balance between social protection for workers and the freedom to provide services throughout the eu, so as to ensure the functioning of the internal market. as regards the transport sector, i believe that the situation of carriers transiting through germany should be treated separately from the revision of the directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. a separate approach to the transport sector would more quickly unlock the situation, as the application of the said directive to the international transport sector also raises numerous legal issues. i call on the commission to come forward urgently with a solution for the transport sector in the context of the review of the next legislative package on road transport, in order to immediately prevent any distortion in the internal market and to stop the spread of this wage practice to other member states.
in writing. a functioning single market needs a dynamic, efficient and social rights-based transport sector. this means fair conditions of competition between companies and decent remuneration for employees. however, this balance is currently being challenged by the unilateral regulations recently introduced by certain member states. i therefore condemn the protectionist measures of countries such as france and germany to introduce minimum wages for hauliers operating on their territory. such measures are anti-european, lead to the fragmentation of the single market and discourage the participation of eastern european firms. i therefore look forward to a firm position from the ec towards states that violate european principles and i call for a public debate on the definition of a level playing field for the transport sector. we need a common set of rules at union level, as well as a mechanism to monitor their implementation. as regards the remuneration of those working in the sector, i reiterate my support for the idea of having a minimum wage, but it must also be clear that the differences in economic development between countries do not yet allow eastern companies to pay their employees to western european standards.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to underline the importance of the two reports in this debate, 'the eu heating and cooling strategy' and 'towards a new energy market organisation'. towards the end of this year, the commission will come up with new legislation on energy efficiency, the organisation of the energy market and the energy performance of buildings - legislative proposals that will play a major role in achieving the energy union objectives and have the positive impact we want on european union jobs and industry. i think we need to insist and do more about jobs and industry, without which the european union cannot be competitive. it is clear that we need a future-oriented energy market reorganisation that takes into account the new energy realities: the need to integrate renewables into the grid, wider tariff zones, short-term trading markets and, of course, the physical infrastructure to enable all this. as regards capacity mechanisms, they should be used as a last resort to balance the network, as they would put too much financial pressure on consumers. since heating and cooling account for around half of the final energy demand of the european union, it is important that this sector becomes more efficient in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, to contribute to reducing emissions, and to reduce costs for consumers, in particular those at risk of energy poverty. i stress once again the importance of ensuring access to both short-term and long-term financing for investment in projects related to the modernisation of the heating and cooling sector, including district heating and cooling, the modernisation of existing infrastructure networks, the modernisation of heating systems and the switch to renewable sources. mandatory targets on energy deficit must be accompanied, i repeat and emphasise, by adequate access to finance. i congratulate my colleagues, mr gierek and mr zanonato, on their contribution and their excellent work in producing these two very good reports.
mr president, we are debating today a report of great importance for the european economy, the completion of the single energy market, a market which we want to be functional and efficient. there is progress, but we still have roadblocks in achieving this goal. firstly, there is insufficient investment and a very slow pace of interconnection of national energy networks. secondly, we are talking about the still insufficient harmonisation of national energy legislation. we have countries where getting a permit to connect a company to the national energy grids takes over one hundred and fifty days. finally, thirdly, we discuss the dysfunctions caused by some policies to stimulate renewable energy, which have led to excessive costs for intensive, key, strategic industries for the european union. i support the compromise amendments proposed because they help to remove these bottlenecks.
in writing. a new electricity market design must promote a secure, sustainable and efficient electricity supply that takes into account the dynamics of the relationship between renewable and conventional energy production. price volatility is a signal to accelerate electricity market reforms and an important element in finding solutions at european level for the construction of future interconnections, lng terminals and energy storage capacities. i would stress that conventional generation remains essential for maintaining the security of energy supply, something that the new design of the electricity market must take into account in order to ensure its proper functioning. the use of national energy resources, the exploitation of hydropower in the case of romania, high-efficiency gas and coal-fired power plants benefiting from the latest technologies, can make a key contribution to the unlocking of the european energy market, decarbonisation and security of supply. the commission considers that the market economy operator test is a valid test for the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy and, by implication, territorial cooperation, is the visible arm of the single market, which aims to ensure the balanced and sustainable development of the regions of the european union. it promotes economic integration in the countries of the european union and improves the competitive position of regional economies by providing european public goods that the market cannot provide. each european territory has its own role and can and must become a source of development in itself through a fair distribution of economic activities. recent economic analysis confirms this approach with numerous studies demonstrating that geography matters and that regional policy can make a difference. a key element of success is the involvement of national, regional and local governments in fundamental strategies and in the creation of networks that transcend national physical and political boundaries. while there is no universal recipe for such cooperation and regional development policy, principles such as partnership, transparency, subsidiarity and civil society participation are harmoniously combined, and the strengthening of public-private partnerships makes decentralisation and the active involvement of society as a whole more effective. on the other hand, the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, which generated 58% of the value added in the sector, should be highlighted. in this context, i consider effective cooperation between the commission and the member states to be essential in order to support entrepreneurship training projects for women and young people in rural areas, smes that will contribute to job creation, the development of new services, as well as to increasing incomes and avoiding depopulation of these areas. on the other hand, we must not forget that europe's regions are having to adapt to the pressures of the global economy. climate change is a threat to some sectors and an opportunity for others, and demographic change and an ageing population are forcing new labour market policies. as long as the european union has aspirations, it must also have an adequate cohesion policy to enable it to achieve them. one of the things we all aspire to is common progress in a reunified europe. after all, it is our regions, areas and cities that make the investments, implement the national and community policies and apply the legislation in the european union. they must therefore not remain on the sidelines as mere spectators, but must be viable partners.
mr president, commissioner, i very much appreciate the debate today, because i believe that nothing can be more important for a united europe than cohesion. i want to refer specifically to the sme report, because i am also vice-chair of the sme intergroup. it is important to have new measures, but i think it is even more important to check, commissioner, through the national authorities, what the effect of applying these measures is. because smes still lack access, not only to finance, but also to public procurement, to the labour market and to research and innovation. and so i think it is very important, if we are talking about cohesion and this is in the treaty, to also talk about the strategic investment fund which does not help cohesion. the strategic investment fund, without regional, geographical criteria, increases regional disparities, does not bring about cohesion; therefore, i ask you, commissioner, to try to discuss this at the mid-term, now, if those criteria - first come, first served - cannot be revised at the strategic fund. and i also think that we have to think particularly about start-ups and the creation of new jobs, and this, as you said, can be done through discussions with national authorities, across borders, through all the other reports that have been presented here, whether we are talking about research-innovation, the alpine project and so on. i therefore hope that improving our cohesion depends on the treaty and on respect for these rules.
madam president, europe is facing a major challenge, namely demographic change. life expectancy has increased, birth rates remain low, children are born later in life, family structures are changing and new forms of relationship building are emerging, to which is added the phenomenon of migration. in addition, the economic and financial crisis has led to budget cuts in public funds for work-life balance policies. as such, better cooperation between the commission and the member states is needed to implement positive policies and support demographic renewal, encourage greater participation of grandparents, and maintain social security systems. finally, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the approach they took in this report, which covered all the essential points concerning the balance between family and professional life.
madam president, today, the balance between private and professional life is increasingly difficult to find. young people are forced to hold more jobs to ensure a decent living for their families. the risk of unemployment pushes employees to work overtime, and competition generates high-risk health stressors. i worked in human resources, and i often met people who regretted that they didn't have time for privacy. but to protect today's employees, we're not just talking about the work schedule, but a number of factors, sometimes used by employers, that put pressure on employees and their private lives. we need european legislation to introduce greater flexibility to ensure a balanced family life. we need mechanisms that actively combat the means used to push employees to devote themselves to their working life. the european commission should come up with an ambitious proposal and, above all, the family must become a factor of stability again because a balanced private life leads to a successful professional life.
madam president, women in europe, especially those in rural and small urban areas, continue to face serious difficulties in finding a job and maintaining financial stability, preventing and identifying health problems for pregnant women, supporting the fight against discrimination and acts of physical and verbal violence. these problems have a direct negative impact on the well-being of families in the member states of the european union. in romania, i made a number of public policy proposals that i think the european institutions could take over and finance at the level of the entire union. these relate to facilities for rural women to find stable jobs, support for rural children with mothers working in the community, campaigns to prevent breast cancer risk, free testing for pregnant women. through close collaboration between institutions, civil society and governments, we can find one-stop solutions to these problems.
madam president, commissioner, the crisis of confidence in the european union is seriously affecting the future of europe. after the poor management of the refugee crisis, repeated terrorist attacks and brexit, european citizens need clear communication from the commission, but also measures on their safety, improving their quality of life, respecting human rights, no matter where in europe they live. unfortunately, the commission, almost halfway through its mandate, does not have a clear exit strategy for the crisis that is well communicated and explained to european citizens. how can citizens' trust in the european union, in the commission, grow if they do not see positive changes in their lives? one example is the strategic investment fund: it has not brought any positive effect in the eastern countries and this leads to increasing regional disparities. i ask the commission, on behalf of the citizens i represent, to take account of the provisions of the treaty both in terms of safety and in terms of social cohesion. we cannot continue with two europe, schengen and non-schengen. the citizens of my country feel rightly discriminated against. i believe that the european union is at a crossroads and that we need to revise our strategy and our communication if we want a united europe.
madam president, the unfinished brexit has brought uncertainty and warnings from the european union's external partners and from the large companies whose european market operations are headquartered in the united kingdom. following a study, the japanese government recently expressed fears about the future of investment in europe by large japanese companies. in this context, japanese officials clearly mention the european medicines agency and have reservations about the continuation of the work of japanese nationals in this institution. that is why the proposal i made to you during the last session, to move the headquarters of the european medicines agency from the uk to romania, is of the utmost importance, and speed is essential if the uk's actual exit from the european union is not to bring with it syncope and an insurmountable disruption to the institution's work. romania is one of the european union countries with a long tradition in pharmaceutical research, but also in the production and study of medicines. i take this opportunity to invite you to join me in launching a written statement on this topic. it is time for us, the members of the european parliament, to demonstrate that we are campaigning and acting for a european union of solidarity, where the member nations enjoy the same trust.
madam president, today, over three million pupils and preschoolers started a new school year in romania. as every year, we think about how much the education system is providing a better future for our children. too often, education is seen as a cost, when in fact it's an investment in the way the world will look and how our children can achieve their dreams. this approach means that, beyond the purpose of education, we finance numbers instead of caring about students, we account mathematically for destinies instead of mentoring our young people, and we get stuck in bureaucratic mechanisms instead of adapting the system to today's needs. the european left, through the voice of the party of european socialists, has proposed a series of measures through the pact for youth, through which it seeks to convince european decision-makers that firm, coherent, consistent action is needed to support the next generation. as a young mep, i think it is my duty to tell you that today, young people in romania want education to become a competence of the european union and thus, as i said earlier, to become a priority on the european agenda.
madam president, the g20 summit in hangzhou was a successful one, and i would like to say a few words to congratulate china for the way it was organised and presided over. the s&d group certainly welcomes the decisions in key sectors such as fair taxation, the refugee crisis and terrorism, and also the commitments to solve the problem of over- production, especially in the steel sector. but, as we know, it is one thing taking a decision and a totally different one putting it into practice. we are very happy about the stance taken by the commission against apple in ireland because, for the s&d group, fair taxation is a key element in a wealthy and competitive economy. it is evident, however, that, alongside the measures to be taken at eu level, we need to act globally in order to make sure that the rules are binding for all. this is where europe should assume its own responsibility as an important actor in the international community. one key message, deriving from the g20 summit and more generally from the global economic situation, is that we need more growth, and that we cannot expect only developing countries to be the ones leading the process. the eu needs to do more in order to re-launch growth in the economy and to create more jobs, with more flexibility and more investment. the g20 was also an occasion for the us and china to ratify jointly – and i would underline the symbolic importance of that ‘jointly’ – the paris agreement on climate change. this is an area in which europe had always taken the lead but, at least this time, the united states and china got there first. they are the two biggest world polluters, so maybe this is equally a sign of world change. europe should draw its own lessons because no eu member state has ratified the paris agreement, and this is once again the difference between nice speeches and the action which is so necessary for european citizens and for the survival of the european project.
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the conclusions of the last g20 summit, as it focused on several elements which are of strategic importance for the union. i would like to begin by stressing the issue of development and the need to effectively implement the objectives of agenda 2030. as the rapporteur for the parliament on policy coherence for development, i was pleased to see that the issue of policy coherence for sustainable development was mentioned in the conclusions. i believe that the union has a key role to play in promoting this concept of the cdp, of policy coherence for development, and this forum was a good opportunity. another point is the question of refugees. we have been hit harder than others by the refugee crisis, and when it comes to this issue, we must strive to work with other partners to determine the root causes of the crisis, and the root causes are also political causes. we must not forget that refugees come from regimes which are not democratic and which are far from the rule of law, and cooperation must therefore be engaged in this area. in this context, it is a little sad to see that russia is back on the international stage. it is accepted as a normal partner, even though, as we know, crimea is still occupied. russia continues to openly violate international law, and we see the effects. the separatists are encouraged. in transnistria, three days ago, the head of the so-called transnistrian republic asked for transnistria to join russia on the basis of a referendum held ten years ago. our actions always have consequences and it is important to remember that russia is a very bad partner from the point of view of international law and indeed the rule of law.
blue-card question. – in fact i welcome your speech and would like to underline the good methodology and transparency of the investigation by the committee of inquiry. at the same time, i have a question for you. how do you think that the committee of inquiry could help, as you mentioned, to restore consumer confidence and ensure that this situation will not happen again?
mr president, commissioner, i want to start by appreciating the work of the commission, which is halfway through its term of office, but i would like to stress a few things. there have been many, many appreciations and comparisons between the united states and europe. i'm the shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group on the homologation report. commissioner, i do not think we should rush this dalton type approval report until we have the commission's result. what's the point of having a committee working on the investigation if we're rushing this report? that's the problem. the second problem: i don't think the united states is better than europe, that's not the problem. there is very light regulation, but there is voluntary compliance and i believe that we cannot turn the commission into the gendarme of europe, but the national authorities must advocate the observance of simple rules which also protect the population but do not kill industry in favour of non-european industrialists. i come from industry, i know how hard it is when we over-regulate the guilty and kill the good. i think it's important to pursue compliance and not over-regulate. and i don't agree that the report should just mention volkswagen, because there are other companies that are doing it wrong and we need to talk about all of them.
mr president, technology and innovation are the strengths of europe and of progress in every field. it depends on how we use them. there is investment from the european development fund precisely to make strategies that lead to innovation and smart specialisation. we don't have to invest in everything, anyway, we just have to see what the outcome is. and the result has to be smart specialization. as of 2014, virtually every region in the european union has a smart development and innovation strategy, but in reality not all regions put them into practice and use them. there's a big difference between regions. where there are no such smart development strategies in practice, money should not be invested, because it will be wasted and lost. so what i'm arguing is that we should only invest where regions and countries have done their job and adopted such strategies.
in writing. ‒ in a european context marked by economic and social crises, the european union has the role of stimulating sustainable economic growth by exploiting the potential of innovation. the development of smart specialisation strategies is a response to current challenges, and these strategies have a significant impact on improving the competitiveness of the european economy. the role of ris3 is thus a key one in the context of the contribution of cohesion policy to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this instrument boosts job creation and growth, but also contributes to bridging the innovation gap. given the importance of these strategies, close monitoring is needed to deliver the desired results, but also to strengthen cooperation between regions in order to meet the europe 2020 objectives. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that smart specialisation strategies are an essential tool to strengthen research, stimulate innovation and encourage sustainable economic growth.
in writing. ‒ with a global economy in constant transformation, marked by recessions and budgetary constraints, the eu is obliged to improve its innovation potential. strategies need to be constantly revised when we are talking about a field that is constantly changing. i voted for increased synergy between european instruments to make the most efficient use of resources. it is essential that local and regional authorities develop their own views and ensure greater cooperation between regions to avoid duplication of effort and inefficient spending.
in writing. ‒ i consider it necessary to use the complementarity between the european structural and investment funds (esif) and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the potential to combine these funds in order to make full use of the european union guarantees for the financing of investment platforms.
in writing. ‒ during the year 2014, regions have started to develop and publish their ris3 strategies. the aim of these strategies is to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions. smart specialisation strategies support thematic concentration and strategic programming of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and lead to increased performance orientation on the ground, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of these strategies is to create sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions. smart specialisation strategies support thematic concentration and strategic programming of the efsi funds in order to increased performance. this report deals with the areas where improvement for ris3 should be carried out and underlines the fact that the use of esi funds, together with horizon 2020, provides excellent options for boosting innovation at national and eu levels. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ improving the european union’s capacity to innovate is crucial during these times of economic recession. i have voted for this report which through the ris3 strategy will, amongst others, stimulate private investment in research, technology and development.
in writing. ‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) should help to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, to develop european added value in innovation and to create new high-quality jobs. smart specialisation strategies can also be powerful tools for addressing energy, resource efficiency and energy security challenges. i stress the importance of adapting education and research to real market needs in an effort to ensure that new innovations meet demand and lead to economic growth. i support the new european innovation council, which aims to create a one-stop shop for innovators and which will link scientific achievements to the needs of europe's business and public authorities. given that research, technological development and innovation are investment priorities under the european regional development fund (erdf) for the period 2014-2020, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3).
in writing. ‒ during the year 2014, regions have started to develop and publish their ris3 strategies. the aim of these strategies is to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions. all this shall contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. i agree with the main areas identified by the report, where improvement for ris3 should be carried out. moreover, this report provides excellent options for boosting innovation at regional, national and eu levels. because innovation is an area that is continuously changing, i believe that ris 3 strategies should be constant revised. therefore, i support the review of the strategies after 2017, which seems mandatory in order to boost the efficiency and effectiveness of them, taking also into account the lessons learned from the initial years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). the rapporteur believes that in a period of economic recession and inevitable budgetary constraints, as well as increasingly fierce global competition, it is essential that the eu continuously improves its innovation potential. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the ris3 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the ris3.
mr president, 38% of the european population live in crossborder regions and they cooperate in every respect: people live together and this cooperation is a key element for stability in these regions, for jobs, for development, for investment. that is why i supported this report and insist on the emphasis on developing investment and sending funds to these regions precisely to ensure their further development and to ensure their stability. again, regional integration is important, because it also addresses the migration crisis and the immigrants who arrive in such regions, how they are integrated, or whether they are integrated. so very much attention to this regional cooperation and, again, funds to match the efforts that are being made there.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation makes a significant contribution to strengthening the union's objective of territorial cohesion by stimulating both economic growth and territorial development of regions. the restructuring of the etc in line with the europe 2020 objectives has a strong positive impact, with the etc playing a key role in the continuation of regional priorities. this instrument is present both at the level of cities and regions and beyond national borders, encouraging the strengthening of regional cooperation and integration, especially in island regions. as regards best practices, improvements in regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility of services by overcoming cross-border problems in terms of mobility of persons are noted. i also welcome the strengthening of institutional capacity and social capital, the strengthening of cross-border network structures and the creation of new partnerships. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a valuable instrument for ensuring regional stability and integration, making an important contribution to the enlargement and neighbourhood policies.
in writing. ‒ a clear direction has been set for the 2014-2020 period in the allocation of funds for the cross-border development of strategic priorities. these changes have helped to increase the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions, going even beyond national borders. i voted to de-bureaucratize the programs and projects of the cte. a structured public debate at eu level on the future of cohesion policies for the post-2020 period is needed. these projects with concrete results in removing obstacles to development in security, transport, education, energy or health must continue.
in writing. ‒ i believe that good cooperation between the ec, the eib and local and regional authorities is a key element in ensuring the successful use of financial instruments in territorial development and in the whole of cohesion policy. in this context, i believe that there is a need to increase the exchange of experience and knowledge between the ec and the eib on the one hand and local and regional authorities on the other.
in writing. ‒ having in view that etc has made a significant contribution to enhancing the economic, social and territorial potential of regions, parliament expressed its disappointment concerning the outcome of the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020 regarding the cut in appropriations for etc. thus, one of the important goals of this report was to call on the commission and member states to work towards preserving etc as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, through allocating etc a more distinct role within cohesion policy post-2020 and increasing its budget for the next programming period. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the commission and member states to work closely towards preserving european territorial cooperation as an important instrument for the european integration process. european territorial cohesion receives a more distinct role within cohesion policy post 2020 and has its budget increased for the next programming period. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims at achieving a greater impact and more effective use of investments by focusing on thematic concentration and results-orientation.
in writing. ‒ cross-border cooperation is an essential tool for the development of border regions with great potential in areas that go beyond regional policy, such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment. the commission and the member states should consider the prospect of continuing cross-border cooperation as an important instrument, giving it a more distinct role in post-2020 cohesion policy, as well as a much more substantial budget. the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes should be simplified by reducing the administrative burden for beneficiaries. at the same time, member states should simplify their national provisions and avoid over-regulation, in particular by implementing e-cohesion and streamlining administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation (etc) is an instrument with which to promote equal development and territorial integration across the regions of the eu. the resolution draws on examples of best practices of etc from the periods 2000-2006 and 2007-2013, finding that there have been great cross-border collaboration achievements made in areas such as mobility and regional connectivity, handling environmental challenges, education, employment as well as knowledge transfer and innovation. the resolution stresses the importance of continuing the development of such good results for the 2014-2020 period while evaluating certain issues that need improvement to reach full efficiency of etc, such as simplifying the management and absorption of etc programmes and raising public awareness about its positive contributions to eu regional cohesion. as such, i can only offer it my full support.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation (etc) is one of the essential components of the european union, stemming from its founding principles themselves. since 1990, it has been covered by the interreg community initiative, which, in addition to crossborder cooperation, has now grown to include transnational cooperation and interregional cooperation (between cities and regions). the tecs bring clear added value to the europe 2020 objectives by improving regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility of services (including in the field of transport), transfer of knowledge and innovation, increasing the competitiveness of smes, quality branding and strengthening regional identity, addressing environmental challenges, better risk management and disaster response, strengthening institutional capacity and social capital, strengthening cross-border network structures and creating new partnerships. all these dimensions contribute to narrowing regional development gaps within the eu, providing a platform for local development closely linked to the immediate interests of european citizens. they also allow for appropriate support for research and innovation, coordination of government policies and simplification of bureaucratic mechanisms. for all the above reasons, the funding of this policy should be maintained at least at the same level as before, coupled with better information for citizens and increased visibility.
in writing. ‒ the setting up of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union legislation on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector is a timely initiative to ensure environmental protection and to monitor closely the legislation in force. the work of this committee of inquiry is complex and is based on the collection and analysis of information to establish whether evidence of the use of tampering devices by member states was available, as well as information on the implementation by member states of directive 2007/46/ec. i welcome this interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector because i am confident that the results of the inquiry will contribute to improving the european union type-approval framework and that the actions of this commission will contribute to compliance with the legislation in force on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament set up a committee to investigate alleged maladministration in the application of eu legislation on emissions from the motor vehicle sector. the commission shall collect and analyse the information to determine whether member states had evidence of the use of tampering devices. i voted for the inclusion of additional meetings in brussels and strasbourg, for the exchange of views and for the continuation of the investigations into emissions from the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ this interim report is a purely technical report as at this point in time it is premature to draw any definite conclusions from the work of the inquiry committee. however, it is interesting to understand the progresses of the work of the committee, since as more and more evidence emerges the picture becomes more and more clear. all these elements have to become part of the final report. several countries around the globe have opened investigations into whether car manufacturers respect vehicle emission limits on the road, as opposed to under test conditions. investigations have shown that most manufacturers switch off or turn down their emission-control technologies at temperatures and conditions outside those of the lab test. it is important to re-establish confidence in the consumer and to ensure that this situation will not happen again. i welcome the good methodology and the transparency of the investigation of the committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ the interim report is a purely technical one at this point, it is early to draw any definite conclusions. while the work of the inquiry committee is in progress, more evidence emerges, all of which will be included in the final report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that offers a brief overview of the activities of the emis committee and also provides an outlook on the upcoming working plan of the committee. the emis committee has been set up since the 2nd of march 2016 to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration relating to emission measures in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ a temporary committee of inquiry was set up in 2015 to investigate alleged shortcomings in the application of union legislation on emission measurement in the motor vehicle sector and to make any recommendations. i voted for the european parliament's resolution on the inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector because i believe that this committee must continue its work and fully fulfil the mandate given to it by parliament. the results of the ongoing investigation could lead to improvements in the union type-approval framework. we call on the commission to ensure prompt support and full transparency when assisting the committee of inquiry in its work, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation, by providing it with all possible technical and political support, in particular by providing the requested documentation more quickly.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and the work of parliament’s special committee of inquiry into the car emissions scandal. public trust in the car manufacturers has been seriously eroded, as has confidence in the authorities tasked with regulating this industry. we should take every opportunity to improve legislation where necessary, but we also need an effective enforcement regime with appropriate oversight. type approval authorities must have the necessary powers and resources to enforce the law and deter criminal activities, otherwise any improvements to legislation will be meaningless. i hope this report marks the beginning of long-lasting changes to improve environmental standards and restore public trust.
in writing. ‒ the setting up of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor vehicle sector (emis) was the european parliament's institutional response to the outbreak of the emissions test fraud scandal involving european car manufacturers. the purpose of this report derives from the mandate of the committee itself, which is to present an interim document in the middle of its one-year term. the work of emis has thus focused in recent months on exchanges of views with representatives of the european commission, hearings of relevant witnesses and experts, and information missions to the joint research centre's institute for energy and transport (jrc-iet), the vehicle emission measurement laboratory (vela) and the type approval authorities in luxembourg and the vehicle testing facility in lambsheim (germany). these were supplemented by a number of studies, briefings and spot notes, as well as requests for documents, questionnaires and the call of relevant witnesses. a dedicated website has also been created to ensure the transparency of emis's work, where all relevant information for the public can be accessed. all these measures will contribute to finding the truth and determining those responsible for the current situation. it is about fulfilling one of the ep's fundamental missions, to defend the interests of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the committee unanimously followed the rapporteur’s recommendation to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china agreement aims to amend the tariff concessions related to croatia's accession to the union. given that the european union has expanded its customs union with the accession of the republic of croatia, it is mandatory to open negotiations with the members of the world trade organisation on the customs tariff of croatia in order to reach an agreement on the compensatory adjustment. this compensation agreement is a proof of the union's attachment to the multilateral rules-based trading system, and once again underlines the primacy of the objective of establishing customs unions and free trade areas. i welcome the agreement with the people's republic of china on the modification of tariff concessions in connection with the accession of croatia to the european union as i consider that this agreement contains changes commensurate with the concessions and is in line with previous practice.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, the latter extended its customs union, which generated an increase in tariffs above the level the acceding country had committed to respect. i voted to reduce the current eu consolidated tax to support economic stabilization. the compensatory adjustments to china are proportionate and do not exceed the rights of china affected by the withdrawal of concessions by croatia.
in writing. ‒ this is a file of technical nature. it aims to conclude the eu-china agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, as per the wto requirements. the commission has negotiated with china the issue of the withdrawal of specific concessions in relation to the withdrawal of the schedule of croatia in the course of its accession to the eu. these negotiations resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters that was initialled on 7 october 2015. it is now appropriate to conclude the agreement. no amendments were tabled in the committee on international trade (inta). i support the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union enlarged its customs union with the accession of croatia. this file aims to conclude the eu-china agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, as is required under wto rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement, which is a necessary step in order to ensure compliance with wto rules. after the accession of croatia, the eu had to launch negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights, amongst which china, in order to agree on compensatory adjustments linked to the fact that the eu has enlarged its customs union and croatia has adopted the eu’s external tariff regime, which led to an increase in tariff beyond the level for which croatia had previously bound itself at the wto. the outcome of the negotiations with china is a balanced one, the number of products affected and the actual level of the compensation being quite limited, i.e. eu duty on footwear was reduced from 17% to 16,9% and on certain air conditioning machines from 2.7% to 2.5%, additional 2 150 tonnes of garlic were added under the eu tariff rate quota of 9.6% and additional 650 tonnes were added to the eu tariff rate quota for mushroom.
in writing. ‒ the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) is part of the rules of the world trade organisation and regulates international trade. i have voted for this report that will start negotiations with the world trade organisation’s member, china, regarding the tariff schedule of croatia following its accession to the european union thus enlarging its customs. the agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters with the people’s republic of china, will be signed by the european council on behalf of the european union, and in the meantime proposal is being submitted by the european commission regarding the conclusions of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this vote aims to conclude the eu- china agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, as per the wto requirements. the vote is necessary, as the european parliament’s consent to a council decision is a mandatory component in the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol. i support this agreement, as it is now appropriate to conclude it.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the eu-china agreement on the accession of croatia, for which i am the rapporteur, comes in the context of the eu's expansion of its customs union with the accession of the republic of croatia. the eu is therefore obliged under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) to open negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the customs tariff of croatia in order to eventually reach an agreement on a compensatory adjustment. as rapporteur, i welcome the agreement with the people's republic of china and consider it appropriate for the european parliament to approve it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and uruguay aims to amend the tariff concessions linked to the accession of croatia to the union. given that the european union has extended its customs union with the accession of the republic of croatia, it is mandatory to open negotiations with the oriental republic of uruguay on the customs tariff of croatia precisely in order to reach an agreement on the compensatory adjustment. this compensation agreement is a proof of the union's attachment to the trade regime, once again underlining the primacy of the objective of establishing customs unions and free trade areas. i welcome the agreement with uruguay on the modification of tariff concessions related to the accession of croatia to the european union as i consider that this agreement contains changes commensurate with the concessions and is in line with previous practice.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu expanded its customs union and was obliged, under the rules in force, to enter into negotiations with the oriental republic of uruguay on the customs tariff applied to croatia in order to reach an agreement on a compensatory adjustment, as the external tariff regime of the european union leads to an increase in tariffs. those negotiations led to the signing of the draft agreement on 18 december 2015. i voted in favour of ratifying this additional protocol, the council decision being a mandatory component in completing the ratification process.
in writing. ‒ this is a file of technical nature. it aims to conclude the eu-uruguay agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and adapting the tariff schedule, as per the wto requirements. it is now appropriate to conclude the agreement. no amendments were tabled in the committee on international trade (inta). i support the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union enlarged its customs union with the accession of croatia. this file aims to conclude the eu-uruguay agreement, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, as is required under wto rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement, which is a necessary step in order to ensure compliance with wto rules. after the accession of croatia, the eu had to launch negotiations with wto members holding negotiating rights, amongst which uruguay, in order to agree on compensatory adjustments linked to the fact that the eu has enlarged its customs union and croatia has adopted the eu’s external tariff regime, which led to an increase in tariff beyond the level for which croatia had previously bound itself at the wto. the outcome of the negotiations with uruguay is a balanced one, with concessions limited adding 76 tonnes in the country allocated (uruguay) eu tariff rate quota ‘boneless meat of bovine animals, fresh or chilled’ and respectively 1 875 tonnes into the eu tariff rate quota ‘meat of bovine animals, frozen’ while maintaining, in both cases, the present in-quota rate of 20%.
in writing. ‒ the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) is part of the rules of the world trade organisation and regulates international trade. i have voted for this report that will start negotiations with the world trade organisation’s member, uruguay, regarding the tariff schedule of croatia following its accession to the european union thus enlarging its customs. the agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters with the uruguay, will be signed by the european council on behalf of the european union, and in the meantime another proposal is being submitted by the european commission regarding the conclusions of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of croatia, the eu has expanded its customs union and was therefore obliged to start negotiations with uruguay on the croatian state customs tariff. this document on the eu-uruguay agreement takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and provides for an adaptation of the tariff schedule in line with wto requirements. i believe that now is the right time to conclude the new agreement and for that reason i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. the nomination of lazaros stavrou lazarou (cy) is for a renewal of his current mandate – he has been a member of the eca since 2010. therefore, it could be expected that the appointments procedure progresses smoothly. his hearing took place in the committee on budgetary control (cont) on monday 5 september where he was approved by a large majority. i supported the candidate at the plenary stage.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the eca operates as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years. members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years. the nomination of joao figueiredo is to replace the outgoing president of the eca, mr caldeira. mr figueiredo is currently a judge at the portuguese audit court and also previously worked as a state secretary and director-general in the public administration. his hearing took place in committee on budgetary control (cont) on monday 5 september where he was approved by a large majority. i supported the candidate at the plenary stage.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ leo brincat has been nominated by the maltese government (labour); he was formerly the environment minister in that government, playing a key role in the cop21 decisions earlier this year. he is the second candidate to be nominated for the maltese post following the withdrawal by toni abela of his candidacy in april after the committee on budgetary control (cont) voted by a majority to reject him due to concerns relating to his political profile. the hearing of mr brincat took place in cont on monday 5 september, where his candidacy was approved with 11 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. from the perspective of the cont rapporteur (green) and the s&d group, the candidate proved himself to be qualified, competent and motivated, so i supported him at committee stage.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on delegated acts), the commission was asked to adapt its rules for taking decisions under trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. thus, most of the legislative acts in the field of the common commercial policy were aligned to the new constitutional regime through the omnibus i and ii acts on trade and a few other subsequent individual alignments. i voted in favour, given that by the end of the 7th legislature the commission had committed itself to drawing up the second set of guidelines on committee procedure for legislative acts providing for the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ this file aligns the previous comitology regime to the post-lisbon treaty rules on delegated and implementing acts in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade. the final compromise involves a mix of delegated acts and implementing acts and also moves certain issues to the basic legislative act, a compromise that balanced the interests of the co-legislators. after the initial agreement resulting from two trilogues in december 2014, the council refused to accept its outcome due to one unresolved issue: the consultation of member states’ experts in the preparation of delegated acts. the negotiations were therefore suspended until december 2015, when the new inter-institutional agreement on better law making was agreed and a new horizontal formulation for the issue in question had been found. the text adopted in council is in accordance with the compromise reached with parliament. i therefore supported the outcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this uncontroversial proposal, which aims at amending the regulation (ec) no 471/2009 in order to bring it in line with the new institutional framework applicable after the entry into force of lisbon treaty related to the adoption of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ one of the steps toward updating the way decisions on trade policy are adopted in the european union was the omnibus proposal, covering over 24 regulations on trade defence instruments, economic partnership agreement market access regulation and trade barriers regulation amongst others. i have voted for this report that aims at better law making in the eu’s trade policy.
in writing. ‒ in light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, the commission was required to adapt the decision-making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. this file aligns the previous comitology regime to the post-lisbon treaty rules on delegated and implementing acts in order to enable the systematic production of community statistics in the field of external trade. the final compromise involves a mix of delegated acts, implementing acts, and also moving certain issues to the basic legislative act, a compromise that balanced the interests of the co-legislators. the text adopted in the council is in accordance with the compromise reached with parliament. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep recommendation on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the ep and of the council on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers. the ep recommendation follows the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, requiring the commission to adapt its rules for taking decisions in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making thus enabled the parliament and council negotiating teams to reach an agreement on that regulation.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this regulation is to make it mandatory instead of voluntary, in order to avoid data collection problems reported by several member states. this is necessary to prevent the quality of the collection of electricity and natural gas price data for the household consumer sector from declining significantly and to continue to achieve broad market coverage and high quality of price data. i voted in favour of this report which aims to simplify the way in which price data are collected, a procedure which should not create an additional burden for reporting authorities, as they are collected by the competent national authorities.
in writing. ‒ in 1990, a directive was adopted defining the procedure for increasing the transparency of gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users, and at present the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices paid by household end-users is carried out on a voluntary basis. i support this regulation on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices and repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a community procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users, as i consider that the process of converting from voluntary to mandatory is necessary to avoid data collection problems reported by several member states. the collection of price data should be the responsibility of the competent national authorities in order not to complicate the current situation.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on electricity and natural gas prices since the 1970s. the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices paid by household consumers shall be carried out on a voluntary basis. i voted to make it mandatory for both home and industrial consumers to have a voluntary status. these data are to be collected by the competent national authorities. simplifying the procedure for collecting and analysing data is a priority in this case. the current statistics are based on the verification of invoices in the suppliers' databases. in this regard, it is important to protect the confidentiality of consumer and supplier information.
in writing. ‒ through this vote, i express my support for the new regulation on statistics on natural gas and electricity prices that creates a legal requirement for data collection in each member states. under the old framework, member states disclosed statistics on a voluntary basis, making systematic and updated data unavailable for regulators. consequently, the analysis on the impact of policies in our ever-changing socio-economic environment was challenging. as required under the energy union strategy, the commission must issue every two years a report on energy costs and prices, hence the new regulation will be a helpful tool for the commission’s work.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices charged to industrial end-users since the 1990’s but not to household consumers, these being done only on a voluntary basis. i have voted against this report that will make it compulsory to collect the data regarding the household consumers, data that will not benefit household consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that it brings the necessary amendments to the regulation on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices, thus improving the commission's original proposal. i think it is very important that these statistics are as complete as possible and the fact that the regulation sets the framework which will ensure continuity in the collection of these data is extremely positive. they also support this report because it highlights the importance of protecting all this confidential data in the relationship between consumers and suppliers.
in writing. ‒ the energy challenges facing europe include the dependence on oil and gas imports that has increased in recent years, the lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by state-imposed energy taxes, the increase in global energy demand, as well as the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions caused by different support systems. meeting the eu's climate change objectives requires a package of measures, which involves, in addition to the use of renewable energy, assessing the benefits of low-carbon technologies compared to high-carbon technologies. i voted in favour of the report on a new organization of the energy market, considering that the european commission's proposal for an energy policy involving both centralised and decentralised structures is correct and viable in the current international context.
in writing. ‒ the future of the energy market in eu countries is one of the current topics at european level. moreover, it was one of the catalysts from the outset of the founding act of the european union, an act directly linked to the management of energy resources. due to outdated infrastructure, poorly integrated markets and uncoordinated policies, consumers, households and businesses do not benefit from a wider choice or lower electricity prices. on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a set of guidelines and objectives to regulate and unify the european energy market. all measures must be checked in terms of instruments, legal basis, implementation and possibilities for europeanisation of electricity supply. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the report 'towards a new organisation of the energy market'. i believe it is time to complete the single energy market in europe for a secure, environmentally sustainable and affordable energy supply. predictable energy prices and security of supply will raise household living standards.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report comes ahead of the expected electricity market design legislation to be proposed by the end of 2016. part of the energy union, it concerns the rules for the electricity market and particularly trading, transmission and distribution of electricity. a new market design is needed to take into account the changing nature of our electricity supply, moving away from traditional, centralised, base-load power generation towards a system based more on variable renewables and flexibility, often produced at a more local level. thus the energy markets need to adapt. we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we need to ensure a market design which works for consumers and industry alike, ensuring affordable energy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european future electricity market has three political objectives: the creation of an eu-wide electricity market providing clear price signals for new investments; provision of a european dimension to security of electricity supply; strengthening of regional cooperation on energy policy, in particular when there is investment in new energy production facilities, for interconnectors and funding rules, and for the integration of renewables into the european single market. i have voted for this report that will ensure that energy policy objectives of security of supply, environmental impact and value for money can be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the new energy union strategy provides new benefits for energy consumers, gives them a much wider range of options in participating in energy markets and ensures better consumer protection. the full implementation of the third energy package in all member states is one of the most important steps towards a european energy market. we demand that the electricity supply and system services be allocated in accordance with market economy principles. such a public tender, whether national or cross-border, should be technologically neutral and should also allow the participation of energy storage operators. i stress the need to speed up the authorisation of energy infrastructure projects at all decision-making levels. as the commission's proposals for a new energy market organisation concern exclusively the electricity sector, we invite the commission to consider revising the concept of the natural gas market to respond to the challenges in the gas sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and therefore voted in favour of the new energy union strategy, because we must all be aware of the importance of such a union for the european market and for consumers who will ultimately have a wider range of choices. at the same time, the report emphasises a practical aspect: long-term planning of infrastructure development, reiterating the importance of renewable technologies in order to ensure the sustainability of this market.
in writing. ‒ the increasing diversity of energy sources and the full integration of renewable energy into power grids require a new energy market design. this will allow the eu to reduce dependence on centralised power generation and increase the use of many more localised sources of energy. this vital transition will increase our energy independence. i welcome the s&d’s approach to capacity mechanisms to ensure consumers get good value for money and to reduce the number of people living in energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently facing a number of energy challenges, including dependence on oil and gas imports, lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by state-imposed energy taxes, rising global energy demand, security risks for producing and transit countries, tackling climate change, slow progress on energy efficiency, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions caused by different support systems. in this regard, the commission considered that better integration and coordination of energy markets is required, by creating an eu-wide electricity market, creating a genuine european dimension for the security of energy supply and strengthening regional cooperation in the field of interconnections and support systems, as well as with a view to integrating energy from renewable sources. however, the current situation is characterised by the predominance of national decision-making, which emphasises the need for consultation in the sub-areas of price-setting in the event of shortages, the extension of regulatory oversight at european level, increased interconnection, the use of energy from renewable sources, the subsidiarity of the european market organisation, price liberalisation. it's a step forward to improve the situation.
in writing. ‒ following the communication of the european commission of july 2015 on a new energy market organisation, this report highlights the need to reorganise the energy market and improve the regulatory framework in order to increase the use of renewable energy and fill existing gaps in legislation at cross-border level. the report argues that the organisation of the energy market should be based on market-specific principles, as this could help to stimulate investment, guaranteeing market access for smes, and thus achieving a stable, integrated and smart energy system. in this context, the report recommends that the commission, in its work on the new energy market organisation, seek to ensure a level playing field between european electricity producers and those in third countries, with the aim of providing european consumers with sustainable and affordable electricity. the report stresses the importance of supporting stable and cost-effective renewables for long-term investments that are adjustable in the short term and can be adapted to national needs. the report therefore calls on the member states to encourage their use, given their essential role in the energy market. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the new energy market organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on a new energy market organisation. the rapporteur believes that the european commission's proposal for an energy policy involving both centralised and decentralised structures is in principle correct. i welcome his view that the desired market organisation must therefore be designed in such a way that transformation processes can take place without distorting markets and leading to bad investments.
in writing. ‒ many european buildings are currently facing the problem of energy loss due to their inadequate insulation and old and inefficient heating systems. at the same time, energy poverty affects almost 11% of the eu population. the eu's policy tools and capabilities are not yet sufficiently developed to drive the transformation of the heating and cooling sector, to make the most of its potential and to develop solutions to reduce demand. it is estimated that the amount of heat energy produced by industrial processes and dissipated in the atmosphere or water, instead of being used productively, is sufficient to fully cover the heating needs of residential and commercial buildings in the union. i welcome the initiative of the committee on industry, research and energy to initiate this report, considering that the correct application of the measures to develop a comprehensive and integrated strategy for heating and cooling offers both businesses and consumers in the eu a number of significant opportunities in terms of reducing overall energy costs for industry, boosting competitiveness and ensuring a reduction in costs borne by consumers, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the issue of heating and cooling has profound effects in a wide range of areas. it is essential to make real progress in revolutionizing the heating and cooling sector as part of a wider reform of the energy system. the main way to combat energy poverty is to reduce heating prices, ensuring that energy efficiency will increase significantly. the strategy to increase the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling aims to address a complex issue: the distribution of elements referring to heating in several directives and legislative instruments such as the energy performance of buildings directive, the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive. i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an eu strategy for heating and cooling. i stress the importance of more extensive scientific research into the development of innovative technological solutions to ensure energy-efficient household appliances and all heating and cooling systems. an important source of heat, which has not been used sufficiently, is solar radiation, which, with the help of panels that heat water or generate electricity, can be exploited to the maximum.
in writing. ‒ gradual warming of the climate causes cooling that generates energy losses in buildings without adequate thermal insulation. i voted to set aside at least 25% of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund for the purpose of thermal renovation of properties. this objective should be a priority, especially as the problem of heating and cooling is increasingly a problem in the member states. the use of appropriate architectural solutions, insulation and reversible heat pumps, and the replacement of outdated thermal power plants with high-efficiency ones are concrete solutions to alleviate the thermal discomfort of the citizens of the member states affected by these climate changes.
in writing. ‒ given that energy efficiency policies should focus on the most cost-effective ways to improve the performance of buildings by reducing heat demand and/or connecting buildings to high-efficiency alternatives, i consider it important to undertake extensive scientific research to develop innovative technological solutions to propose energy-efficient household appliances and heating and cooling systems that run on energy from renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – which is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty. the report is in response to a commission communication on the heating and cooling strategy. heating and cooling refers to heating and cooling of buildings both in the residential and industrial sectors. it will feed into some of the upcoming legislative initiatives on energy efficiency, in particular the revised energy performance of buildings directive to be proposed in the autumn. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the issue of heating and cooling is increasingly being raised by eu member states. i support finding and using innovative and appropriate architectural solutions, such as thermal insulation of buildings. cooling is a growing concern directly linked to the gradual warming of the climate. therefore, i consider that under the energy efficiency directive, member states should develop state building renovation plans with a view to making buildings energy efficient, not least by providing incentives for the renovation of buildings owned by individuals, and that these plans should also include specific measures for the most vulnerable groups, in order to contribute to the fight against energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on an eu strategy for heating and cooling of buildings in the residential and industrial sectors. this will improve the performance and energy efficiency of the revised buildings to be proposed in the autumn.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy for heating and cooling, in which i reiterated the importance of developing eu systems that provide incentives for the energy-efficient rehabilitation of public buildings, private and social housing, and for the construction of green buildings. in the same report, we stressed the need to use structural funds to modernise the building system, particularly in the form of preferential loans, which would facilitate much-needed modernisation of existing buildings, especially in the less developed parts of the eu. the amount of heat produced from industrial and commercial processes lost to air or water could fully cover the heat demand in european residential buildings. the eu needs to find a viable technological solution and legal framework to recover this energy loss. member states should speed up the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as stimulating energy efficiency in buildings is a key element that would help to alleviate energy poverty in households. state building renovation plans should provide for support measures for people living in the most deprived areas and for vulnerable groups facing energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s strategy and fully support parliament’s report on the eu strategy on heating and cooling that seeks to improve our citizens’ comfort and progressively decrease their energy bill. the parliament sent through this report a strong political signal to the commission to accelerate investments in the right direction and equally challenge the industry to find innovative retrofitting technologies.
in writing. ‒ a number of differences have been identified in the order of priority regarding of actions to be undertaken as part of the eu strategy on heating and cooling, taking into consideration that heating and cooling is more pertinent in some member states than in others. i have voted for this report that will ensure that energy is used more efficiently thus achieving co2 emissions reductions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the parliament's resolution on the eu heating and cooling strategy because establishing appropriate policies in the planning and implementation of heating and cooling infrastructure will have a direct impact on the energy system, energy efficiency and the economy in general. industry needs clear signals to make the necessary investments to achieve the eu's energy targets. i stress the need for ambitious and binding targets and a regulatory framework that stimulates innovation without creating unnecessary administrative burdens in order to optimally promote cost-effective and environmentally sustainable heating and cooling solutions.
in writing. ‒ my endorsement for this report stems from its commitment to meet the goal of the eu’s greenhouse gas emission reduction under the climate agreement reached at the cop21 climate conference in paris. the report outlines the strategy to reduce the eu’s energy dependency on fossil fuel imports by integrating heating and cooling into the electricity system. the report emphasises that half of the eu’s heating and cooling usage stems from residential buildings, and thus provides a practical framework to decarbonise the energy sector by helping households access finances to invest in renewable and energy efficient technology. i am also in support of this report because of its focus on consumers as the centre of its strategy and its goal to create an energy efficient market.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report on the eu strategy on heating and cooling. heating and cooling account for a significant proportion of household energy bills and approximately half of the eu’s final energy demand. the modernisation of infrastructure and appliances could significantly increase energy efficiency, reducing pollution and energy dependence. it is critical that cost savings are passed on to the final consumer, especially those who are already in energy poverty and those at risk.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling systems account for about half of the eu's energy consumption. in this context, it is very important that the european institutions contribute to making the field more efficient, both for industrial and household consumers. in particular, the energy efficiency of buildings is addressed by means of thermal insulation of older buildings, upgrading and even replacing old thermal power stations, and upgrading heating and cooling equipment (including boilers and air conditioners). this process is already underway in many member states, but coordination of efforts at european level is needed to avoid gaps between regions and to avoid the vulnerability of certain social groups. national resources are insufficient and individual investment by citizens is unthinkable. to address these problems, a substantial increase in european funding is needed, covering the thermal renovation of residential lots and the construction of innovative installations, as well as an increase in the use of renewable energy (in particular solar energy). this is an absolutely necessary initiative, which i support wholeheartedly.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling account for the largest share of energy consumption at european level. in this regard, this report underlines the need for a specific long-term strategy with renewable energy at its core. the report thus highlights the major role played by new technologies based on water, air, solar energy, geothermal energy, etc. and calls on member states to provide incentives for the promotion and adoption of these technologies. in this context, it is considered that upgrading outdated and inefficient heating systems, better use of heat by district heating systems and a thorough renovation of buildings are some of the key elements that can enable a safer and more sustainable approach to heat supply. the commission therefore proposes an attractive financing system, favouring the use of new technologies for heating households based on renewable energy. furthermore, the report underlines the importance of scientific research to develop innovative technical solutions for energy-efficient and renewable heating devices and systems. i therefore voted in favour of the report entitled 'the eu's strategy for heating and cooling'.
in writing. ‒ after the rise of the last decades, it is estimated that smes will be the main driver of economic progress in the coming period, both in developed and in transition countries. improving the competitiveness of smes is a key area of intervention, as smes represent around 99% of all enterprises, making a decisive contribution to job creation and cohesion. improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is a priority objective in the regional operational programme 2014-2020, with around eur 63 billion of esi funds allocated to this framework for this period. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of smes' as i believe that the programme will focus on financial instruments and support for the internationalisation of enterprises and will be simplified to make it easier for small enterprises to benefit from it. during the new programming period, investments in smes will be made through ot 3, while also allowing for investments in smes under other thematic objectives. the development of the competitiveness strategy shall focus on capitalising on the potential of competitive industries and services, attracting smes to the value chain, promoting technological innovation and supporting the internationalisation of smes.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy provides for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. small and medium-sized enterprises are essential for the economies of the member states, both for employment and for increasing competitiveness. over €70 billion has been allocated to support businesses through cohesion policy between 2007 and 2013. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i voted for continuing to help smes to successfully integrate into global value chains. these businesses are the backbone of the eu economy, accounting for 85% of new jobs created. they are key drivers of europe's long-term economic growth.
in writing. ‒ given that cohesion policy is the main instrument for growing investment and jobs in the european union, i believe that the acceleration of implementation, in particular the creation of projects with sustainable growth and quality job creation potential, with a focus on projects also launched in rural areas, to create new services and to help avoid depopulation of rural areas, should be monitored more closely.
in writing. ‒ smes are key to the future development and prosperity of our economy. they are essential for the economy of eu regions, in terms of employment and competitiveness. esi funds – through their thematic objectives (to) – contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the smes. for the 2014-2020 financing period more than eur 63 bn have been allocated to the to 3 ‘enhancing the competitiveness of smes’ which – together with the national co-financing – will amount to eur 94 bn. i support the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. furthermore, i also consider important the role of local governments which – directly or indirectly – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to properly participate in the ops. therefore technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that smes are an important pillar of the eu economy and a job creator, accounting for 67% of eu private sector jobs and 58% of the value added in the sector. their role is essential for regional economies, competitiveness and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the eu will provide financial support for 5% of all smes and 8% of all new businesses in the eu, in the form of grants or practices such as loans, interest rate subsidies and the provision of guarantees. optimising the efficiency in the allocation and use of resources by smes will result in lower production costs and increased productivity, and european industry could realize potential savings of eur 630 billion per year. it is therefore necessary to develop a favourable framework, alongside enhanced international cooperation, to ensure the integration of european smes into global value chains.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing of smes. it also stresses the role of local governments which are involved in programme monitoring committees. technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the operational programmes are crucial. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds are the main investment policy tool with a total budget of eur 454 billion for 2014-2020. i have voted for this report that will allocate more than eur 63 billion from the european structural and investment funds to improve competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises with the expectation of offering support to over 800 000 companies for the creation of over 300 000 jobs during the 2014-2020 programming.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the thematic objective 'improving the competitiveness of smes'. the 23 million smes in the eu, representing around 99% of all enterprises, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation, providing over 100 million jobs. simpler and less regulated access to credit should take into account the specific characteristics of micro-enterprises and start-ups, as well as those of the regions in which they operate. the commission, the member states and regional authorities should pay particular attention to improving access to finance for micro-enterprises and start-ups that want to grow. we call on the commission to increase funding for strengthening the competitiveness of smes when it draws up cohesion policy for the period after 2020. we also call on the managing authorities to take into account the specific characteristics and competences of each territory, paying particular attention to underdeveloped, depopulated and high unemployment territories, with a view to promoting both traditional and innovative economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ smes create jobs and economic growth for the regions of europe and remain therefore a key priority of the cohesion policy. i support this resolution because investment in the sme sector is fundamental for keeping the economy of europe strong, and the resolution sets out how to achieve this through increased spending on smes, using esi funds, for the 2014-2020 period. importantly, it highlights the positive impact of involving local public authorities directly in the management of the esi funds in order to create more local awareness about the opportunities that the funds represent for entrepreneurs and smes. this should help ensure an efficient and targeted use of the funds.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the union has paid particular attention to smes in the member states, with a number of programmes designed to involve citizens, especially young people, in the creation and strengthening of new smes and to encourage the better development of long-established smes. i think the smartest thing we can do is to focus on the programmes that are already in place, and make sure that they will achieve their intended objectives.
in writing. ‒ this report is key to the future development and prosperity of our economy and i hereby support it. smes are essential for the economy of eu regions, in terms of employment and competitiveness. esi funds – through their thematic objectives (to) – contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the smes. for the 2014-2020 financing period more than eur 63 bn have been allocated to the to 3 ‘enhancing the competitiveness of smes’ which – together with the national co-financing – will amount to eur 94 bn. for the 2014-2020 programming period support is expected to be given to more than 800 000 smes; 396 500 micro, small and medium sized enterprises will receive esf funding. it is important to focus on promoting entrepreneurship, developing and implementing new business models and supporting growth in national and international markets. nonetheless, the need for simplification of administrative procedures and a better access to financing for smes remains. furthermore, it stresses the role of local governments which – directly or indirectly – are involved in programme monitoring committees. however, many of the local authorities are still lacking the administrative capacity to participate in the ops. therefore, technical assistance and their early involvement in the discussions regarding the ops are crucial.
in writing. ‒ there are currently 23 million smes in the european union, representing 99% of all enterprises. they create more than 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs, thus contributing significantly to economic growth. in this regard, this report recommends strengthening their support through the european structural and investment funds. in order to facilitate sme creation, the report highlights the need to improve access to finance for micro-enterprises and start-ups that want to grow. thus, the interest rates for financing smes and large companies should be equalised. the report also draws attention to the fact that excessive bureaucracy has discouraged certain smes from applying for the proposed funding and, in this regard, calls on the commission to analyse this issue swiftly. other recommendations made in this report to the member states and the commission are: the creation of a structured dialogue between the european investment bank and the european investment fund, with the aim of improving and facilitating access to diversified sources of finance for smes, or the establishment at national and regional level of conditions applicable to state aid that do not disadvantage smes. i therefore voted for the report on improving the competitiveness of smes.
mr president, i voted for a european union strategy for the alpine regions and i want to say that if it is successful, it will have to be extended to many other regions and including the alpine regions of my country, romania. the strategy for the alpine regions was launched in 2016 in slovenia and follows in some ways the model of the strategy for the carpathians and the strategy for the danube region. if it's successful, i repeat, we can use it in other situations, in other regions. it's very important to say what this means. it means we're bringing the mountain people closer to the city. they're sometimes isolated, they want to come to shows, to health services, to social services, to all kinds of events that are happening in nearby cities. that's why this strategy is useful for humans. and two, we voted for it because it doesn't spend more money, but it shows us how to use the funds we have wisely.
in writing. ‒ sustainable and competitive tourism, reducing the isolation of inland and remote areas by improving their access to transport and energy services, diversifying tourism offerings and products, training and entrepreneurial skills in tourism, reducing climate change risks through investments in the water sector are just some of the priorities crystallized in the development of a viable eu strategy for the alpine region. given that the eusalp area includes mountain areas with low resource use and plains areas with high production concentration, integrated economic strategies are needed. those strategies shall be in line with the objectives of the programming of the esi funds for the period 2014-2020 and in particular with the principles of innovation and the smart specialisation strategy. i voted in favour of this report, considering that all the players, parliament and the commission, need to be involved so that there is a coherent and common approach to sustainable development, the environment and energy to maximise the potential of the alpine regions.
in writing. ‒ there are currently three eu macro-regions: the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, the european union strategy for the danube region and the strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the alpine region is home to over 80 million people in 7 countries, 5 of which are eu member states. connectivity and logistical difficulties for producers have often held back the development of mountain areas, the alpine macro-region being highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. i voted for increased involvement, both at the initiation stage and, in particular, in the implementation phases and coordination with other strategies and with the eu's wider territorial cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ given that the macro-regional strategy for the alpine region can help reverse economic decline through investment in research, innovation and entrepreneurial support, and taking into account the unique characteristics and values of the region, i believe that supporting innovation in key areas of the mountain economy can enable businesses in the alpine region to develop new products and services in areas such as life sciences, bio-economy, new materials, e-services, tourism, healthy ageing, e-care for isolated patients.
in writing. ‒ this is the fourth macro-regional strategy of the eu (the prior three being the baltic, danube and adriatic and ionian strategies). eusalp strategy, which covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions within and outside the eu, covers the alpine region, a region that is already engaged in various cooperation agreements. however, the region has poor transport links and logistic problems for manufacturers, and suffers from the effects of the climate change. consequently, local, regional and national authorities need to take action in accordance with the subsidiarity principle to address the problems in the whole area, as they are best placed to use the bottom-up approach that takes account of local needs while – at the same time – being subject to cross-border, transnational and interregional coordination and cooperation. our objective is to make the trump cards of this very dynamic and innovative region better known. i believe we achieved this goal.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the proposals that the rapporteur made regarding a better strategy for the alpine region. i believe it is paramount to improve the prosperity and competitiveness of the region – adding accessibility and transport lines, while striving to protect alpine heritage.
in writing. ‒ the european commission submitted an action plan for the alpine regions strategy in july 2015 under the name eusalp. this macro-regional strategy will contribute to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion in alpine regions. i have voted for this report enabling the fourth eu macro-regional strategy following those for the danube region, adriatic and ionian region and baltic sea region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because, on the one hand, it highlights the valuable experience gained from the implementation of the alpine convention, which serves the social, economic and ecological interests of the areas concerned impartially; on the other hand, there is a real concern with regard to the application of natural disaster risk management measures and climate change adaptation strategies. another factor that led me to support this proposal is the use of the capacity of local and regional authorities and civil society at local and regional level in the administrative bodies and in the operational bodies.
in writing. ‒ a macro-regional strategy is vitally important for the alpine region and a common approach will help address the challenges and opportunities shared by seven countries with a collective population of approximately 80 million people. some flexibility will be needed, given the variety of national, regional and local authorities from multiple countries which are responsible for administering the region. the fragile environmental situation combined with the presence and importance of tourism present particular problems; the strategy must prioritise environmental concerns so that the economic opportunities remain sustainable and alpine heritage is protected.
in writing. ‒ the alpine region is one of the main tourist areas of the european union. in this context, the development of an eu regional strategy for the alpine area is a significant element, favoured by the objective of territorial cohesion enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. this is the fourth such strategy dedicated to a european region, following the danube, baltic and ionian-adriatic strategies. in this case, the eusalp strategy covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions within and outside the eu, an area characterised by good interstate cooperation but with insufficient transport infrastructure, logistical problems for producers and suffering from the effects of climate change. the strategy is based on a number of fundamental pillars, such as improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, ensuring accessibility and connectivity for all inhabitants of the region and ensuring sustainability by protecting the alpine heritage and promoting the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources. achieving these objectives would further enhance the immense potential of the region, contributing to the territorial cohesion of the union. i consider this a laudable initiative and support the adoption of this report in its current form.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report for the european union trust fund for africa. we need to tackle the causes of migration at home, where people are coming and going from other continents. now we're talking about africa: there are very fragile areas, very poor areas, there's arms trade, there's land grabbing, and there are all sorts of other problems that are driving people to leave. that is why the fund must solve these problems. the union's official commitment was eur 1,8 billion. the problem is that member states have contributed only 4.5% of the pledged amounts. we all know that funding has three stages: promise, commitment and action. only the action, the payment, remained at the stage of promise. so i encourage member states to go ahead and give money to that, precisely to fight immigration and help those in africa.
in writing. ‒ eu migration policies must be geared towards addressing the root causes of migration, with the main objective of investigating and addressing the real causes of poverty in the countries of origin. at the same time, the eu must contribute to peace and stability and to promoting economic development by working towards healthy lives for all citizens, gender equality and quality education for demographic inclusion. strengthening the protection of migrants, asylum seekers and highly vulnerable groups is another eu objective, by more effectively combating the exploitation and trafficking of migrants and working more closely with third countries to improve cooperation on incentives for return and voluntary reintegration in migrants' countries of origin. i voted in favour of this report, considering that only with the support and direct involvement of the european union will the most deprived states be able to provide solutions to the problems of their citizens.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the largest provider of aid to developing countries. the eu's mission is to help reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty and migration in developing countries by promoting sustainable development, democracy, peace and security. on 12 november 2015, the president of the european commission, together with other eu member states and other european donors, launched the eu emergency trust fund for stability and addressing the root causes of irregular migration and displacement in africa. this trust fund, set up in record time, demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to respond promptly to the major challenges we face in this region. it is worth mentioning that africa receives over €20 billion of eu official development assistance annually, so it can be said that the union has been investing continuously to tackle the root causes of migration. in this regard, i consider it important to introduce a more effective monitoring system of how eutf funds are used and allocated, and to increase parliament's powers of scrutiny over the eutf.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the eu trust fund, signed by 25 eu member states as well as norway and switzerland at the valletta migration summit, is to contribute to promoting stability in regions and better migration management. globally, 1.5 billion people live in fragile and conflict-affected regions. the eu trust fund aims to support 23 countries in three african regions (the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad basin and north africa) which include some of the most fragile african countries affected by migration. i voted for transferring funds in a faster and more flexible way in emergencies and for pooling the various sources of funding to address all dimensions of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the main goal of the eu trust fund for africa (eutf), signed by the president of the commission along with 25 eu member states, as well as norway and switzerland, and launched at the valetta summit on migration on 12 november 2015 by the european and african partners, is to help foster stability in the regions and contribute to better migration management, more specifically, the eutf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. we want to make sure the atf, which is mainly development cooperation money, is not used for security purposes or border control, and only finances education, employment, good governance, environmental projects. this is clearly reflected in the final text. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is only a part of the eu’s response to the migration crisis. i believe that the funds need to be better monitored by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the eu trust fund for africa that will continue to foster stability with a special focus on the disbursement of funds more quickly and flexibly in case of an emergency situation.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the most important source of development aid for african countries. this stems from the understanding of the importance of solving the problems of the african continent, which is the union's southern neighbour. the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is one of the instruments designed at the valletta migration summit in november 2015 to stabilise the continent and better manage migration. in this latter respect, the focus should be on the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration, encouraging solutions such as resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, citizens' security and development. however, the actual use of eutf funds must be closely monitored to avoid their diversion to obscure purposes of local actors or border control. the areas that must be the priority targets of investment are education, jobs, good governance, environmental projects, i.e. those related to the daily lives of the inhabitants of the african continent. the eutf is, however, only one component of the eu's response to the migration crisis. member states need to support more such instruments to achieve concrete results. however, it is a first step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report and of work-life balance policies in general is not only to promote gender equality in the workplace and in other areas of life, but also to enable children to develop their full potential by providing them with high-quality care and education in the early years, access to recreation, cultural and sporting activities and time with their parents. adequate work-life balance policies will also help to ensure a better quality of life and a high level of safety for other dependants, in particular older people and dependants with disabilities or long-term illnesses. i supported this report by voting in favour, considering that there is a need to raise awareness of the role of work organisation and the promotion of good practice in creating conditions in the labour market favourable to work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, work-life balance with private and family life has been recognised as a fundamental right. women have become increasingly skilled, even surpassing men in terms of education, but are still underrepresented in the labour market or are employed in jobs below their skill level. the gender gap in employment is estimated to cost the eu some eur 370 billion a year, or 2.8% of eu gdp. during the recent crisis, poverty rates reached alarming levels. this led to more intense and long-term work in order to earn a decent income. women have suffered even more because they generally earn less than men for the same work. i voted to create conditions that would promote work-life balance. both modernisation of current eu legislation is needed to address shortcomings or omissions in certain areas and better coordination between member states is needed to ensure a level playing field in terms of the costs and benefits of balancing policies.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the decline in the birth rate in the european union has been exacerbated by the crisis, given that unemployment, poor job opportunities, uncertainty about the future, and discrimination in the labour market are causing women, especially young professionals, to postpone motherhood. in this regard, i believe that member states need to promote innovative mechanisms for the organisation of working time, reconciliation plans, programmes aimed at returning to work, channels of communication between workers and the workplace and incentives for businesses and self-employed workers.
in writing. ‒ the report responds to the european commission’s roadmap on work-life balance and proposes various initiatives to modernise the existing eu legislation (revision of the maternity leave directive, improving parental leave) and to adopt new eu directives on paternity leave and carers’ leave. it also proposes to enhance exchange of best practices regarding flexible working time arrangements, and tools to increase labour market participation of female and male workers with dependants. i believe it is time to assess our demographic and socioeconomic challenges and adopt a package of legislative and non-legislative policies to promote work life balance to ensure workers enter, remain and return to the labour market, and can reconcile professional, private and family life. i voted in favour of the report, as through it, the ep sends a strong message before the commission presents its new proposal by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ europe faces demographic and socio-economic challenges and should promote work life balance to ensure workers enter, remain and return to the labour market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will address the challenges of work-life balance faced by working families. this need for modernising work-life balance framework at eu level is due to the demographic changes triggering more care needs, new emerging working ways and unprecedented high levels of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ one of the first commitments i made when i decided to get involved in politics was to create legislation that would give equal career opportunities to women and men. the challenges of the modern world confirm that this is a desire which, even if it has been achieved in some countries, must be preserved and reiterated, adapted to the present time. in today's family, both parents must be able to have a work-life balance without compromising their jobs and careers. unfortunately, this report does not provide solutions for companies that are deficient in this respect, we have a text that is too general, with provisions that go beyond the original purpose of the report. the document also calls on the member states and the commission to take a stand and tackle the many reasons why the eu has a low birth rate and an ageing population, but fails to provide clarity on the implementation procedures and existing solutions to improve this situation. in this context, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is concerned with creating the best possible living conditions for european citizens. recently, however, it has become increasingly difficult to reconcile career and family life at european level. this has a negative impact on demographic trends, contributing to the rapid ageing of the european population. to counteract these effects, this document proposes to review european legislation to achieve a balance between career and personal life, in particular with regard to maternity and paternity leave, flexible working schedules, and increased participation of parents with children in the labour market. these measures require additional investment in social services, in particular in the care of children, the elderly and the disabled, the creation of quality jobs, equal treatment in the labour market. these measures will increase the frequency of paternity leave, allowing equal participation of parents in child-rearing, encourage carers of the elderly, children or the disabled, encourage the reintegration of mothers into the labour market and ensure free access for children to education, health, care, food and housing. i believe that these measures are beneficial to raising the standard of living of european citizens as a whole and i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently facing an alarming demographic situation, caused by the steady decline in birth rates in most member states. in the face of this finding, the report indicates that establishing policies for reconciling family and working life can help to strengthen economic growth, competitiveness, gender equality, reduce the risk of poverty and, moreover, increase the birth rate in the eu. it stresses that work-life balance should be a fundamental right for all, not just young parents, and encourages member states to promote social protection models at the level of enterprises, in the public and private sectors, that respect this right. the proposed measures also include: promoting a family-friendly working environment, work-life balance plans, re-entry programmes, employee-employer communication interfaces, and incentives for businesses, in particular to ensure that citizens are not economically penalised for having children. i therefore voted in favour of the report which proposes to create conditions in the labour market which are favourable to work-life balance.
mr president, i would first of all like to condemn in the strongest terms the attempted coup d'état that took place in july in turkey. the fact that this attempt to take power by force has failed is something to be welcomed. because, obviously, in a democratic state, violence can never take the place of the vote in any form. no one knows, however, if this is the end of the attempts to take power in turkey, other than democratically. beyond that, i would like to express my serious concern at the way this failed coup d'état has been used to settle a number of political scores. of course, those who tried to take power by force must be brought to justice. but nothing justifies using this pretext to eliminate political opposition, to hunt down teachers, journalists, ordinary turkish citizens described as terrorists. turkey must respect freedom of expression and association. i think it should be clear to our turkish friends that we will not waive any of the conditions for visa liberalisation. turkish citizens will have the right to travel freely in the union when all 72 criteria are met by the authorities.
mr president, i have to confess that i heard some of my colleagues speaking realpolitik, a lot of it in a quite cynical way, but saying very little, if anything, on principles and values. turkey is a candidate country and it has to guarantee high standards on human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. turkey took steps towards democracy and secularism many decades ago and has strengthened its position as a credible and powerful actor on the international scene. but this also implies external and internal obligations and responsibilities towards all its citizens – i repeat all its citizens – and international partners. otherwise we must realise here today that, after the failure of the coup d'état, which we all condemned, turkey has chosen lately to undermine its commitments. since the coup attempt, the turkish government has overseen a vast purge. more than 100 000 people have been dismissed or suspended from their jobs and many others have been detained. therefore i call on turkey to respect the right to justice and to a fair trial for all its citizens and for the foreigners living in turkey. turkey is facing a wide range of threats, including terrorism, in relation to which cooperation between europe and turkey is fundamental. finally, another very important aspect is that turkey is a key actor in finding a political solution for syria in the fight against isis and in the management of the syrian crisis and refugee flow. i urge turkey to play a constructive role and to change its behaviour for good.
in writing. turkey's internal stability is of paramount importance to both the european union and nato, we have no interest in chaos and instability in the country, and any attempt to overthrow the democratically elected government by force is to be condemned at all times. however, this claim is independent of the current migration situation. we cannot change our attitude towards turkey based on whether the turkish government is turning a blind eye to illegal migration on its shores or taking a hard line on human traffickers. similarly, the enforcement of human rights should not be judged in light of turkey's role as an important ally in the coalition against the islamic state. a few months ago, after the eu-turkey summit, i said that it was unthinkable to speed up turkey's accession negotiations, that there could be no special treatment for turks, and that this would undermine the credibility of the whole enlargement process. i can only confirm this today: we must take a firm stand on turkish affairs, we must not behave as if turkey were doing a service to europe which we are returning with a visa-free regime. this kind of discourse suggests to european citizens that the eu is powerless without turkey on this issue, which i am convinced is not the case.
madam president, first of all, let me congratulate mariya gabriel, who led the eu observer mission, and jo leinen, who led the mission of our parliament. my colleagues mr mélenchon and mrs rivasi have mentioned the case of côte d'ivoire. in this connection, let me say that i think this is a similar case. it so happens that in 2010, i was the head of the election observation mission when mr gbagbo refused to leave power and it's basically the same idea: he was aiming for soviet results in his home region and wanted, at the time, to annul the results in the departments where alassane ouattara had won. the problem is precisely that of contesting the results of the vote. instead of calming the political atmosphere, elections give rise to political crises. i think the only duty we have is to continue the work of the team led by our colleague, mariya gabriel, and to demand what is being done all over the world, the publication of the results of voting, polling station by polling station, so that citizens can first of all verify what has been done with their votes and then independent observers, including our observers from the eu mission, can have an overview of the results and summarize them. only the accurate counting of votes will calm the spirits; if we do not, the violence, the looting and the crisis that was appeasing will continue to grow. of course, there is also a family problem because mr. ping himself is a member of the bongo clan. it's not someone else, it's not an opponent from outside.
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the report by our colleague mr castaldo, which sends a positive message to our tunisian partners. tunisia has made remarkable progress in the last five years, with the restoration of freedoms, the holding of free elections and the adoption of a new constitution. now the country is in the most delicate phase of the transition, because it seems to me that the main challenge is a socioeconomic challenge: getting the tunisian economy back on track, reviving growth and employment, is the way to avoid the explosion of this time bomb of experienced unemployment and the disenchantment felt by a majority of young tunisians. it is clear that tunisia is in a geopolitical situation that is not helping it at all, especially with the major impact of the libyan crisis. the european union has a key role to play in helping tunisia, first and foremost economically. initiatives such as support for the tunisian olive oil sector are of paramount importance. i believe that this is in keeping with the spirit of the union's new neighbourhood policy. our tools need to be responsive and flexible so that we can use them when we need them most. i welcome the presence of commissioner hahn, who has worked for this new neighbourhood policy. we must also support tunisia in the field of security, not only through a strengthened partnership but also by contributing to the resolution of the libyan crisis. i am pleased to note that we are paying particular attention here in parliament to relations with tunisia, particularly through the establishment of the joint parliamentary committee which will meet for the second time next week in tunis. we will work in tandem, as we have done with other countries, notably morocco and algeria, and we will have the opportunity to support tunisia as a model for other arab countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear friend castaldo, i want to thank you for your work and also for your friendship towards tunisia. as he underlined in his very balanced report, the post-revolution example of tunisia is a successful one and we need to do everything within our possibilities to support this new democracy. the stability and security of tunisia are paramount for the stability and security of the wider region and are fundamental for european security. it is for this reason that tunisia has been targeted by daesh, and it is for the same reason that we need to be even closer to, and to support, tunisia. tunisia has suffered heavy consequences in its tourism industry and has also had to use large resources from its still fragile economy for security and military purposes and to face the libyan refugee crisis. this is not the only reason for the current social and economic situation, but it has certainly contributed to it. i am glad that this parliament played an active role in the case of olive oil under macro-financial assistance. we are right in demanding reforms, but we need to give this country and its new unity government all the necessary support and tools. and one final proposal. there is discussion right now about some of the tunisian people's assets which used to belong to ben ali and are still in european banks and within member states. let us do something and send back the assets to their owners, the tunisian people!
madam president, the intensification of the dialogue between the european union and tunisia supports the process of political and institutional reform. better functioning of the state is therefore essential to the success of economic and social development. the european parliament must be directly involved in this dialogue and play an active role, and the joint parliamentary committee is a very important instrument. in the process of political reform, the tunisian elections represent a key moment. i therefore welcome the involvement of the european commission and the eeas and consider it extremely important that the allocation of funds, which is also absolutely necessary, be complemented by technical assistance and support in the organisation of these elections. i welcome the commission's generous proposal for €500 million. for the impact of this financial assistance to be sustainable, it is essential that young people are given real alternatives, access to quality education, jobs and inclusive policy. these measures are the most powerful weapons in combating radicalisation and against recruitment by terrorist organisations. the reform programme launched by tunisia in cooperation with the european union in the field of security is a very important one, knowing that terrorism is a common challenge. so both the measures and the responses have to be common. tunisia is not on the list of third states with which europol will conclude agreements and in line with the stated policy and common objectives, i consider that the inclusion of tunisia on this list should be considered. i want to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on this report.
madam president, back in the 2000s, central and eastern european countries joined a european union based on an open market economy with free competition, and on a single market with four freedoms, opening up their economies to fierce competition from companies that had far more capital and far more technological advantage than theirs. what we see today, however, are attempts by old member states to introduce a pick-and-choose variety of competition and single market, depending on what suits perceived interests or populist political approaches better. this happens, be it through attempts to restrict the rules on the posting of workers or be it through the fabrication of an ill-defined notion with highly negative connotations, which is how, today, we are talking about social dumping, instead of enforcing existing single market regulation. in a fight that is about neutralising less-developed countries’ main competitive advantage – lower wages – the next logical step would be to set higher tariffs on goods imported from there. i do not think that is the direction in which the european union should be heading.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr guillaume balas, on his report. i think we all agree that we need, at this point, better protection of workers, their rights and their safety in all member states. equally important, in my view, is that this report should leave no doubt as to its objectives. i believe that the benefits of the european single market and freedom of movement in europe are clear and have been felt in the east and at least as much in the west of the european union. it is a reality that i ask you never to forget! i would therefore like to encourage and support, on this occasion as well, all constructive good faith initiatives which contribute to strengthening this founding principle of our union and which, at the same time, take into account the rights and protection of european workers, regardless of the member state in which they work.
in writing. the report on social dumping highlights that europe faces significant differences in the application of workers' rights. from the perspective of the transport sector, these differences distort the internal market and endanger the safety of passengers. the solution to creating common rules, but also to ensuring that they are implemented, is to have a body with clear responsibilities and the legitimacy to coordinate action at european level. this is why the european union needs a european road transport agency. this would ensure that member states do not impose unilateral restrictive measures that punish firms in low-gdp countries. at the same time, better coordination will help us tackle legislative gaps and stop some firms abusing the freedoms offered by the european single market. there are still a few things to be clarified. first, we must avoid labelling and create a level playing field for all participants in the european market. a constructive approach will require all stakeholders to mobilise to create a single legislative framework, which does not allow for a race to the bottom of social rights to the detriment of the most vulnerable or consumers.
in writing. the european parliament's motion for a resolution on social dumping is welcome, given that inequalities in europe are increasing, thus undermining the achievement of the europe 2020 poverty and employment targets. this means taking a strong eu stance against what we call 'social dumping', which gives it a role model on the world stage, by obliging third countries to respect fundamental human rights, international labour law and social standards, and limiting the effects of social dumping worldwide. we agree that there is no universally accepted definition of the concept, but social dumping, in its various forms, has not only economic, social, financial and budgetary effects but also environmental effects, which are not specified in this proposal. the free movement of persons is indispensable to the achievement of the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion, but it would be desirable that the situation of workers from developing member states accused of social dumping in developed eu member states be clearly regulated, rather than merely taking note of the commission's proposal to revise directive 96/71/ec.
in writing. today's debate was needed more than ever. europe is in a deep image crisis and this is giving rise to extremism. citizens of the different european countries see europe through the lens of their lives. i thank giani pittella for having mentioned in his speech the need for romania, bulgaria and croatia to be in schengen. this is why measures are needed to increase social cohesion, safety and quality of life. mr juncker, the commission is often seen as the 'service-guilty' by citizens who cannot send their children to school, by young people who are out of work, by pensioners who cannot live on low pensions, by smes that are crushed by multinationals. the misunderstanding of the commission's role also stems from the faulty communication. you are right, europe needs to be explained better! as parliamentarians, we want to support the commission. help us support you! be more transparent! take parliament's resolutions into account and focus on social cohesion investments. the efsi has not achieved its objective and therefore you need to change the spending rules, taking into account also underdeveloped regions with a reduced administrative capacity to write projects. let's stay united through projects for people. only then will we be a power in the world.
in writing. on 24 june, with the uk referendum, the european union entered a crucial stage for its future. let me be clear: i do not want the dismemberment of europe and the isolation of our countries in a cave nationalism. on the contrary, i want to save what can be saved in a europe of nations that are united and cooperative in all areas. i expected that, in the meantime, there would be an avalanche of proposals to reform the union and debate them. apart from the proposal put forward by president schulz, which i welcome, i have seen nothing but closed-door meetings between various heads of state, after which only vague statements were made publicly. unfortunately, political leaders are overlooking the fact that brexit and euroscepticism in general were generated by the fracture between the political system and the citizens. the state of the union is worse now than it was on june 23rd! that's because nothing was done! continuing to ignore people's grievances is not a solution to get europe out of the crisis! to continue to exist, the european union needs a profound structural reform!
in writing. in the state of the union address, we did not hear a single phrase about a subject that directly affects 40 million eu citizens. the statement that 'europe cannot become a crucifix' that kills identities made me happy. and yet jean-claude juncker made no reference to national and linguistic minorities in europe. i agree that the lisbon treaty needs to be amended to have an eu foreign minister, but we also need a european commissioner with national and linguistic minorities in his portfolio. we need the political will of the commission to put in place a legislative framework to harmonise the rights of ethnic minorities. 'we have to listen to the citizens and we have to do this more intensively', juncker said. however, the ice proposed by the emcdda under the fuen minority safe pack umbrella was rejected by the commission. "history will not hold us, but it will hold our mistakes", he concluded. that's exactly right. my conviction, and that of 40 million other eu citizens, is that the eu's stubborn silence on the issue of european national and linguistic minorities is a mistake of historical proportions.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes) – before the vote:
we all hope so.
because of the voting i personally could not raise my eyes to that higher level, so i could not see. but, in any case, point taken.
the vote is over.
in writing. ‒ due to its geographical and cultural proximity and, in particular, its political and economic importance, the eu and the 28 member states are switzerland's most important partner. the eu has closer links with switzerland than with any other state outside the european economic area (eea), through a wide range of agreements. while switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. over one million eu citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross the border daily to go to work. approximately 430 000 swiss citizens live in the eu. with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia to the eu, the internal market has expanded even further, reaching almost 505 million citizens and becoming even more important for our swiss partner. in view of the extremely important bilateral relations between the eu and switzerland, i considered this protocol to be important and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the protocol on the free movement of persons was signed in 2000 by switzerland and the european union of 15 member states, and is due to enter into force in 2002. following each of the enlargements of the union, in 2004 (accession of the 10 new member states to the eu) and 2007 (accession of romania and bulgaria), the eu-switzerland agreement was amended, entering into force as protocol ii. with the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013, protocol iii between the eu and switzerland was initiated, extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament because i agree with the text adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. ‒ switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and the eu is its largest economic partner. over one million eu citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross the border daily to go to work. approximately 430 000 swiss citizens live in the eu. the objective of that agreement was to establish rules between the union and switzerland equivalent to those laid down in the acquis communautaire, allowing entry, residence, work, establishment as a worker, studies, introducing the right to social security and granting living, employment and working conditions identical to those guaranteed to its own nationals. we voted for a larger internal market, in which free movement is an essential element, but also for the economic and cultural benefits that can be derived from it.
in writing. ‒ given that switzerland is the european union's fourth largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, and that the internal market has expanded even further since the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia to the eu, and is becoming even more important for the swiss partner, i support the rapporteur's position to support this protocol to the agreement and recommend its approval.
in writing. ‒ it is beyond doubt that both croatia and switzerland will benefit politically, culturally and economically from the signature of protocol iii. free movement is a crucial element and can hence not be separated from internal market participation. i therefore voted in favour of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on protocol iii extending the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons in croatia. this agreement was initiated upon the accession of croatia in 2013 and comprises a transitional period of 7 years, with a safeguard clause for switzerland for a further three years. during this period, switzerland may restrict the access of its citizens to the labour market, with the restrictions to be accepted by a swiss-eu joint committee during the last 2 years of this period. the free movement of persons is the driving force behind the development of the european community at all levels.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of persons given to the citizens of the european union and switzerland to live and work in each other’s territories is regulated by this protocol. i voted for this report that will take into consideration the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ the first set of bilateral agreements between the eu and switzerland entered into force in june 2002, including the agreement on the free movement of persons. they were subsequently amended by protocols i and ii. protocol iii was initiated with the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013 and signed recently. it provides for a transitional period of seven years. there is no doubt that, from a political, economic and cultural point of view, both croatia and switzerland will benefit from the signing of this protocol. free movement is an essential element and therefore cannot be separated from participation in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tss) was established by decision 2003/174/ec, which formalised the practice of organising informal high-level meetings, starting in 1997, within the framework of the european employment strategy. this decision has been proposed to institutionalise the practice of high-level consultation between the eu institutions and the eu social partners. the proposal meant the abolition of the former standing committee on employment, which was set up in 1970 and reformed in 1999. i voted in favour of this proposal, which will allow the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of social dialogue, to the various components of the union's strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the draft council decision on a high-level social tripartite meeting for growth and employment and repealing decision 2003/174/ec.
in writing. ‒ as co-legislator, it is essential that parliament, represented by the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) is invited to the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment on a regular basis. the ppe rapporteur, mr sógor, the shadows and the empl coordinators proposed that consent be given to the council position only on the condition that the chair of the empl committee is invited to the tss on a regular basis. respective assurances should be given by the council and the commission prior to the plenary vote. in the meantime parliament received a letter from the council and the commission confirming that the empl chair will be invited to the tss also in the future, thereby satisfying parliament’s demands. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to strengthen the social dialogue between the european union institutions and the european social partners for job creation and the development of social inclusion, and to lessen the adverse impact of the migration and refugee crisis on labour markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this recommendation regarding the tripartite social summit for growth and employment that amongst other matters, considers the impact of the migration and refugee crisis on the labour market and the digitalisation challenges faced by the labour market.
in writing. ‒ article 3 of the treaty states that one of the objectives of the european union is to develop a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress. in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union must take into account the social dimension of those policies and actions, in particular the requirements of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring adequate social protection, combating social exclusion, and the requirements of a high level of education, vocational training and protection of human health. the union has established a tripartite social summit for development and employment, recognised as an integral component of the social dialogue at eu level. it will enable the social partners at european level to contribute, in the context of their social dialogue, to the various components of the union's strategy for growth and jobs. the summit shall be composed of representatives at the highest level of the president of the european council, the presidency of the council and the two successive presidencies, the commission and the social partners. the summit shall meet at least twice a year, before the spring and autumn sessions of the european council respectively.
in writing. ‒ eu—level social dialogue plays an essential role in the smooth functioning of our social market economy; it has benefits for employers and workers alike, as well as for the economy and society as a whole. this is why i am grateful that this house adopted my report on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment. in the current process of strengthening economic governance – if we want to ensure real ownership of policies and to ensure effective implementation of our decisions – it is critical to involve the social partners in policy debates and decision-making processes. beside the macroeconomic dialogue, the tripartite social summit is one of the key opportunities for improving the involvement of the social partners in the coordination of economic and employment policies at eu level. this is why it is of utmost importance that the social partners have the possibility to negotiate with eu leaders at the highest levels within a stable consultation framework. this is an essential condition to ensure a coherent, fair and efficient decision—making process.
in writing. ‒ growth and employment are two closely related and interdependent concepts. aware of this, the european institutions have initiated consultations with the social partners in the trilateral format employers trade unions institutions, to boost the eu's economic development. in this format, the european union was represented by the commission and the council as decision-making forums. however, in the context of the provisions of the lisbon treaty, the role of the european parliament as the main forum for the representation of european citizens must be respected. the council's position was adopted, but before parliament had expressed its position, which does not exactly reflect the normal procedure. it was therefore a compromise decision that the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) should participate in these consultations. it is a welcome formula, which acknowledges, even in part, the importance of the european parliament's participation in this dialogue. i believe that this is a step forward which can contribute to the success of the high-level social tripartite meeting so necessary in the current european context.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached between parliament and the council focuses in particular on the need for legislative clarity, better regulation, safeguarding of parliament’s institutional prerogatives, in particular for the update of the technical standards in the inland waterway sector, in order to take into account scientific and technical progress in the field of inland navigation, and introducing a safety clause in order to safeguard eu interests. i supported the agreement between the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i support the need to ensure coherence and development of eu legislation, in particular with directive 2014/94/eu on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. while parliament and the council have so far agreed with the general objective of the directive to ensure a harmonised and coherent framework ensuring the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels, it is necessary for these two institutions to further support and streamline the use of resources. as a member of the tran committee, i consider that the development of technical standards and their adaptation to scientific and technical progress is a broad process, which depends both on standards developed at international level and on technical requirements imposed at national level.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's decision to support the uniform application of common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union. they shall aim to ensure a high and consistent level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. the european parliament successfully negotiated the maintenance of its institutional prerogatives on the updating of technical standards in the inland waterway sector and the introduction of the safety clause in order to protect eu interests.
in writing. ‒ common technical requirements are needed to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation for inland waterway vessels. i have voted for this report that aims at providing a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterways vessels.
in writing. ‒ i support this legislation to harmonize technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. coherent transport policy delivers benefits for manufacturers, consumers and the environment. of special importance is the increase in safety which can be expected from such harmonisation, as well as the promotion of new technologies to provide more efficient, cleaner transport. i welcome the oversight powers for the european parliament which were negotiated by my colleagues and which will ensure democratic scrutiny when this legislation is updated in the future.
in writing. ‒ inland waterways are an increasingly important mode of transport within the european union, mainly due to the low cost of freight transport and the low potential for pollution. however, there are a number of obstacles to operating these transport routes to their full capacity. these include the lack of harmonisation of national regulations and of the various river sections. to this end, the european commission has proposed common technical standards for river vessels used by the various member states. the proposal aims to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency, the rapid adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress and the periodic review of regulations. the infrastructure for alternative fuels, including liquefied gas, is also planned. an important component of the institutional negotiations was the parliament's prerogative to take decisions on updating technical standards in the field of inland waterways. this is an important achievement, which is why i support the adoption of this recommendation in its current form.
mr president, in the next ten years, the african, pacific and caribbean countries will liberalise 80% of their trade with the european union. this is possible on the basis of a partnership agreement concluded in 2012. the agreement, however, is not complete and it is not perfect. the union must be more ambitious and continue negotiations to include services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement or sustainable development. this is in the interest of these countries, in africa, in the caribbean, in the pacific, and it's even more important now that we're facing the refugee crisis. diversifying the economies of these countries will lead to economic and political stability, to the safety of their citizens and to the stability of everyone: both those regions and europe.
in writing. ‒ in 2000, when the cotonou partnership agreement was concluded, there was a need for fundamental changes to the long-standing non-reciprocal trade preferences that had governed economic and political relations between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and the european union for almost 40 years. the main reason for this was that the impact of these unilateral preferences had been disappointing: firstly, the share of acp trade in the eu market was continuously declining and most countries were not able to use these preferences to diversify their economic structures. while this development-oriented regional trade agreement currently only includes provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and provisions on sustainable development, it allows for the negotiation of additional provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and enhanced provisions on sustainable development. i voted in favour of this report, considering it essential to promote trade and development between the eu and sadc epa states.
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome the sadc epa which will provide duty-free, quota-free access to the eu market for botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland, and will offer south africa new market access in addition to what it already enjoys. i welcome the fact that the agreement contains a relatively comprehensive sustainable development chapter. i would like to highlight the importance of involving civil society in the monitoring and scrutiny of such agreements, to ensure that fundamental human rights and labour standards are being upheld in partner countries. it is essential to understand the best way to protect and monitor fundamental principles in the economic partnership agreement and implement the sustainable development chapter effectively. i therefore support the call for a strong commitment from the commission for the inclusion of civil society in monitoring implementation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement between the eu and the sadc epa states, which provides duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland. this agreement provides south africa with an additional opportunity for new market access. this agreement ensures that fundamental human rights and labour standards are respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which sets a new institutional basis for enhancing trade and cooperation between the eu and botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa. i welcome in particular the fact that the agreement includes a chapter on trade and sustainable development and the commission’s commitment before the vote to actively encourage and support the involvement of civil society in the monitoring and scrutiny of the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the southern african development community (sadc) consists in 15 members out of which only seven have started negotiating an economic partnership agreement (epa) with the european union. i voted in favour of this report, giving my consent for the sadc-eu economic partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union supports free trade worldwide, which is expressed through the conclusion of economic partnership agreements with various countries and regions of the world. these include the southern african development and cooperation (sadc) region, which includes countries that already have a strong cooperation relationship with the eu, such as south africa, but also others that aspire to this status, such as botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland. the current agreement, signed in june 2015, gives all these countries free, duty-free access to the european market, encouraging their sustainable development. unfortunately, the agreement also does not contain formal mechanisms to monitor its implementation, although such mechanisms are included in eu agreements. in this regard, the role of civil society is essential to monitor the achievement of the objectives of the agreement, in particular in the area of ensuring fundamental rights and labour standards. fortunately, the agreement can be revised after five years, which is a reason for optimism. however, it would be useful to include some verification mechanisms in the agreement as early as possible. in any event, this is an important step forward for the protection of products of protected origin, and not only. i support the adoption of the report.
in writing. ‒ the fishing industry has grown considerably. this growth, however, hasn’t come without a cost – in terms of working conditions and occupational safety – to full and part-time workers in the fishing sector. people in the fishing sector often face harsh or difficult working conditions: they may spend long periods at sea and are frequently exposed to unpredictable and dangerous conditions. adopting these international labour standards for what is one of the world’s most dangerous professions is extremely important to protect workers and provide them with decent working conditions. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ in 2007 during the 96th international labour conference the work in fishing convention was adopted ensuring that fishermen get decent working conditions on board fishing vessels. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that highlights the fact that the agreement provides only minimum requirements, thus allowing member states and their social partners to adopt specific measures favourable to workers in particular areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it supports the agreement on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector, a document concluded between the social partners. the special characteristics of work carried out on board fishing vessels require increased protection for workers in this field. in this respect, i support the text of this motion for a resolution, which calls for the adoption of the council directive without delay, stressing that both the social partners' agreement and the commission proposal only address minimum requirements, leaving member states free to adopt measures more favourable to workers in this field.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the fisheries economic sector has experienced significant growth, which has led to the creation of a significant number of jobs. over 100 000 people are currently employed in the fisheries sector across the eu. however, their work is subject to difficult, high-risk circumstances at sea. the rate of accidents and injuries in this field is 15 times higher than the average in other fields. the commission has therefore proposed to regulate this sector in order to improve the working conditions of those employed in fishing. in 2007, a directive was adopted to implement the international labour organisation's fisheries labour convention. consultations were subsequently organised with the social partners, in this case the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries organisation of the european union (europêche). following these consultations, the implementing agreement was adopted in 2013 and has so far only been ratified by france. the current recommendation aims to boost the ratification process and the necessary practical application of those standards. i support the adoption of the document.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland concerning disputes related to the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal have raised concerns regarding the guarantees of respect for the rule of law. there have been a number of discussions with the polish authorities, but the issues threatening the rule of law have not been fully resolved, which leads the commission to consider that there is a systemic threat to democracy in poland. in this regard, the european commission has made concrete recommendations to the polish authorities on how to address its problems under the emergency regime. there are also concerns about respect for freedom of expression and freedom and pluralism of the media. all this leads the european institutions to intervene in order to resolve the problems created in a satisfactory way, bearing in mind that the principle of separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary are at the heart of the democratic system and must not be undermined. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the ppe group, together with the s&d, alde, gue/ngl and the greens/efa.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland, referring here to the disputes over the composition and functioning of the constitutional court in that country, as well as the worrying aspect of the non-publication of some judgments of that court, call into question the guarantees of respect for the rule of law. it should be stressed at the outset that the principle of separation of powers in the state and the principle of the independence of the judiciary are at the heart of the democratic system and must not be undermined in any way. the polish government has not only made no progress in resolving the constitutional crisis, but also raises a number of concerns regarding respect for freedom of expression and freedom and pluralism of the media. the commission has also received comments from the polish authorities on the implementation of the new law on the media, which is expected to be adopted in the near future. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution to invite the polish government to cooperate with the commission in accordance with the principle of sincere cooperation in order to find a compromise that would resolve the current constitutional crisis and to rapidly identify concrete solutions to the systemic threats to the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that procedural safeguards and material conditions set in the police act for implementing secret surveillance are not sufficient to prevent its excessive use and unjustified interference with privacy and data protection of individuals. the issues that threaten the rule of law in poland have not been satisfactorily resolved and i therefore believe there is a systematic threat to the rule of law in poland. this is why i welcome the fact that, on 27 july 2016, the commission activated the second stage of the rule of law framework by making concrete recommendations to the polish authorities on how to address its concerns. we are not prepared to accept political decisions which go against the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the motion for a resolution regarding the recent development in poland and their impact on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the debate over the last few months on the worrying political developments in poland has been of the utmost interest to the european institutions. the constitutional tribunal has been entrusted with the task of ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, and has been entrusted with the task of ensuring the independence of the judiciary. attempts to introduce a ban on abortion, to amend the public media law, the police law, the attorney general law and the code of criminal procedure are measures that can only make us more aware of the defence of the fundamental values of the union. the dialogue between the european and polish national institutions has not produced any notable results, although the venice commission itself has issued critical opinions on the new national legislation. in these circumstances, in july the commission activated the second phase of the rule of law monitoring framework, making new recommendations to the polish authorities. i believe it is time for the european parliament to send a signal in defence of the fundamental rights of european citizens in all member states. this resolution is only a first step in that direction, but it is a self-imposed measure. i support the adoption of the present resolution, so that polish democracy can be saved.
mr. president, five years after the arab spring, tunisia's transition to democracy is an example for other countries to follow. tunisia hosts over one million displaced libyans, who fled violence and conflict in libya. that is why the launch of a marshall plan for tunisia is justified, precisely to strengthen democracy in that country. only a stable country with a consolidated democracy can ensure stability, both in tunisia and in the region. the report also proposes the creation of an independent authority to oversee public procurement and the functioning of the administration. if such an instrument works, it will bring transparency, fairness, efficiency and, of course, it will attract investors. the report also proposes the creation of a contact point with tunisia by eurojust. so right now we have only good things. let's see them in action.
in writing. ‒ since the tunisian revolution in 2011, the eu has provided political, financial and technical support for tunisia's democratic transition. all this has been done taking into account that the process of peaceful democratic transition in this country is a success story in the arab world and that its strengthening is of paramount importance for the stability of the region and has direct consequences for security in europe. i also believe that the eu and the member states must remain committed to working with the tunisian people and government to promote common interests, including trade, tourism, culture and security, which is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is one of the priority countries under the eu's european neighbourhood policy. the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia is a success story in the arab world and its strengthening is a priority for the stability of the entire region and has direct consequences for security in europe. tunisia's economy is dependent on foreign investment, tourism, which is severely affected by these circumstances and terrorist attacks against the country, as well as the export of products to the eu. its economy can only thrive if democracy continues to develop. i voted for cooperation between the member states and the tunisian authorities to combat organised forms of illegal immigration, but also for continued support for sustainable economic development in this country.
in writing. ‒ tunisia represents a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region. it is crucial that the democratic transition in tunisia be consolidated and supported politically and economically. the terrorist attacks have had a devastating effect on the economy, and unemployment, especially among young people, remains high. the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia demands more and better support to contribute to capacity building for the tunisian institutions, justice sector and security reforms. i support the call for the continuation of technical and capacity-building support for civil-society groups, the launching a programme in support of reform of the judicial sector and the rule of law, a reform of the penal code, a stronger process of decentralisation and the empowerment of the regions by means of further local autonomy, as well as an increase in eu aid to tunisia through the european neighbourhood instrument, and the coordination of international aid to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the consolidation of stability throughout the tunisian region. this country is a real success in the arab world and therefore the support offered would restore stability to the country at all levels. in the wake of recent unfortunate events, it is essential that it receives social, economic and political support, especially in the face of the devastating effects on the economy of high youth unemployment, justice and security reforms. respect for fundamental human rights and the development of monitoring mechanisms on fundamental freedoms, gender equality and other human rights issues are also essential and paramount.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that reaffirms its pledge to the tunisian people and the political transition process that began in 2011 and stresses the need for a more ambitious eu-tunisia partnership.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia represents a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region and, as a direct consequence, for the security of europe. however, tunisia currently faces a difficult socio-economic situation but also security challenges mostly deriving from the situation in libya. furthermore, tourism, which represents a key element of the tunisian economy, is severely affected by these circumstances and by the terrorist attacks which have targeted the country. consequently the eu and its member states must remain committed to working with the people of tunisia and their government to promote common interests, including in trade, investment, tourism, culture and security. the report in question is a good and balanced text, divided into four parts: political reforms and institutions; economic and social development; security and defence; and mobility, research, education and culture. the report reemphasises the need to support tunisia and calls for many actions such as the launch of a programme in support of the reform of the judicial sector and the rule of law and the increase of eu aid to tunisia through the european neighbourhood instrument. i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, given the provisions on the harmonisation of social policies at eu level, as well as those on the creation of protectionist measures in the member states and the introduction of limitations and barriers to the free movement of services and workers. i can agree with provisions relating to efforts to ensure that all workers are protected and have access to fair working conditions, but i cannot agree with measures that undermine member states' competences, especially in terms of wage setting, social security, the tax system and specific labour market reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the particular situation of some new member states, which switched to a market economy in 1990, has not been taken into account. a definition of social dumping is attempted as a wide range of abusive practices which allow, inter alia, the development of unfair competition by illegally minimising operating and personnel costs. in a unitary economic environment, this definition would be correct and would not raise any objection. however, there is a gap in economic development between the old and new member states, which also largely explains the low operating costs in those countries, as well as lower staff costs. i believe that the rapporteur should have taken this into account and given a complete picture of the state of the european economy. of course, i agree to fight social dumping, because it often consists of illegal practices such as undeclared work or abusive practices. however, for an economy as complex and diverse as the european union's, i believe that the economic level of some eastern european member states should not be confused with social dumping.
in writing. ‒ the phenomenon of social dumping arises from practices of unfair economic and social competition and represents a ‘race to the bottom’ in relation to social conditions in europe, damaging high level of social protection in the eu. increased competition between economic operators encourages them to reduce spending related to labour costs; this is leading to a weakening of the social standards in force in the various member states of the union, is gradually undermining all the rights enjoyed by european employees and, finally, is reducing the financial resources necessary for the various social protection systems. this asymmetry between economic freedoms and social rights is fuelling the feeling that europe weakens both individuals and communities, instead of protecting them. thus, the proliferation of abusive practices and unfair social competition weakens adherence to the principle of the internal market and undermines confidence in the construction of europe. these phenomena encourage protectionist tendencies by the member states and unilateral decision-taking by them in the social field. through this report we show that we are very aware of the gravity of this issue and that we engage in fighting against social dumping practices and in ensuring that all workers in europe enjoy high levels of social protection and rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the building of a united social europe. i support the joint effort to combat social dumping and to ensure a high level of social protection and equal rights for all workers in europe. social dumping is the result of unfair economic and social competition practices and represents a high degree of distortion of social protection in the eu. this unfair competition undermines the rights of european workers by reducing labour costs, social standards and, by implication, the cost of living.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on social dumping in the eu that will ensure social convergence in the union and strengthen controls and inspections both at national and european level, in application of the existing legislation. the report emphasises the fragility of social protection availability for employees.
in writing. ‒ one of the basic principles of eu policies is social cohesion, which means a constant and ongoing convergence of wages and social security protection guaranteed to all workers, whether local or remote. significant differences in working conditions and wages persist across the union, with differences in pay levels being the main reason why workers leave their country of origin. it is crucial to ensure a level playing field and fair competition throughout the eu, and to eliminate social dumping. labour inspectorates and/or social partners play a key role in ensuring respect for workers' rights, defining decent pay in accordance with member states' laws and practices, and providing advice and guidance to employers. the rules on secondment should be clear, proportionate and justified and we stress the need to respect the host country's collective agreements and industrial relations systems.
in writing. ‒ increased competition between economic operators has at times led to a race to the bottom as regards social conditions for european workers. the proliferation of abusive practices and unfair social competition is constantly weakening the principle of the internal market and ultimately undermines the construction of the european project. moreover, in trying to defend their own market, some member states have introduced protectionist measures which have further distorted the market. to respond to all these issues, the present report has aimed to bring some clarity with regard to the practice of social dumping, with the final aim of ensuring social rights in a harmonious manner across europe. it calls for control and inspections to be strengthened, at both national and eu level, and calls for the establishment of a legal framework for the protection of all european workers. in the field of transport, a key achievement is the request for the creation of a european road agency, a body which could ensure the coordination of all transport policies, including social aspects, between national authorities and eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the report on social dumping in the eu because i am deeply convinced of the importance of the four fundamental freedoms of the common market and the need to avoid discrimination of any kind when we are talking about the future of these freedoms. the report seriously confuses concepts such as undeclared work, freedom of movement of workers, freedom of movement of services and abuses the notion of social dumping, using this vague and insufficiently defined term to justify potential harmful consequences for citizens of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ it is important that information for consumers about investment products is comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, regardless of the type of financial intermediary that produces or markets them. the lack of detailed guidance in the delegated regulation on key information documents for insurance-based structured individual investment products (priips) has been identified as a gap relating to the 'intelligibility alert', which gives rise to a serious risk of inconsistent application of this element. i consider that there is a risk that the rules laid down by the delegated regulation in its unamended form would run counter to the spirit and purpose of the legislation, which is to provide clear, comparable and intelligible information to retail investors, which is why i voted in favour of the report, namely in favour of the european commission presenting a new delegated act.
in writing. ‒ commission delegated regulation of 30 june 2016 supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for insurance-based structured individual investment products (priips) contains shortcomings in the methodology for calculating future performance scenarios, such as the removal of credit risk from the calculation of the risk category for insurance products that would mislead investors and result in the loss of money by investors. the delegated act, as adopted by the commission, cannot enter into force and therefore the commission is invited to present a new delegated act taking into account the above-mentioned calculation methodology and eliminating the risk that the rules laid down by the delegated regulation would be in contradiction with the spirit and purpose of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) introduces a key information document or kid (a simple document giving key facts to investors in a clear, comparable and understandable manner) covering not only collective investment schemes but also other ‘packaged’ investment products offered by banks or insurance companies. i consider that revision and improvement of the delegated act is necessary. i support a stronger wording on better information on performance scenarios, in order to avoid misleading the retail investor with over-optimistic scenarios, and the need for a detailed comprehension alert addressed to the investor regarding very risky products.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe it is important that information provided to consumers about investment products is comparable, in order to ensure a level playing field in the market. it is also important that investors are provided with information that is 'fair, clear and not misleading', in particular with regard to the transparency of the risk details for products that cause losses periodically during the recommended minimum holding period. the establishment of regulatory technical standards on the presentation or the manner in which key information documents are reviewed and amended, as well as the conditions for their provision, is essential for the establishment of detailed guidance and for the consistent application of this element in the key information document, in particular in the context of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that better information on investment products can really help retail investors and avoid another financial crisis. the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) introduced a key information document or kid which is a simple document giving key facts to investors in a clear, comparable and understandable manner, covering not only collective investment schemes but also other investment products offered by banks or insurance companies. in the current environment, i believe that we should do everything possible to reach an agreement on rules for the information of non-professional investors. i believe in openness and transparency. the regulation should enter into force with an improved content on 1 january 2017 as it was planned.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products.
in writing. ‒ european citizens must be at the heart of the concerns of decision-makers at the level of the european institutions. this is also the case for structured and insurance-based individual investment products (priips), where customer information is of paramount importance. unfortunately, the level of regulation so far has not proved sufficient, failing to ensure a level playing field in the market, removing credit risk from the calculation of the risk category for insurance products, excluding multiple option products and omitting performance scenarios. therefore, further standardisation of this area is necessary in order to provide documents with essential information on these products. the commission proposal for a regulation concerns the presentation, content and review of these documents, as well as the conditions for fulfilling the requirement to provide such documents. however, the proposal fails to address the existing problems. in conclusion, the european parliament's motion for a resolution proposes to postpone the date of application of the regulation in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements of the regulation and the entry into force of the regulatory technical standard. i support this resolution.
the period for explanations of votes has expired.
blue-card question. – i was listening to our colleague mr nicholson before on this subject and i would like to ask him: how is it possible to realise re-industrialisation when we are dealing with so many free-trade agreements that offer so many advantages to other countries from the whole world. in the end, it is even cheaper to produce in those countries instead of producing inside the european union?
madam president, commissioner, europe's competitiveness in the global market cannot be separated from the need for reindustrialisation. reindustrialisation is a solution for increasing jobs and ultimately for increasing the quality of people's lives. that is why i propose, commissioner, that you insist on fair competition policies, trade defence, investment in research and innovation to increase competitiveness. we don't have to over-regulate, though, because the european union has the most complicated legislation and i dread the ttip agreement when i think about the difference in product standards. we need to simplify regulations and insist on a culture of voluntary compliance because otherwise we cannot grow the industry. and there's one more issue that i've been raising for two years, since i came here. i see no trade defence policy towards non-european products, new, in the face of what has happened in the internal market with competition from - i won't name the external markets - the textile industry, the car industry, the steel industry. in fact, if we want to re-industrialize, we have to put an end to this unfair competition and to the dumping of products.
in writing. european industry has been severely affected by the economic crisis, but also by the process of relocation to countries outside the european union that offered lower production costs. traditional industry has disappeared from the european economy and has been replaced by the industry of corporations which, while making huge profits in europe, are exploiting the weaknesses of developing countries. in the face of this trend, the european union must protect its industrial activity by ensuring fair competition, financing the modernisation process and corporate responsibility for the future of european industrial workers. the main solution for increasing competitiveness is to develop the industry of the future by actively funding research and technological development.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate. thank you to so many members – giegold, lambert, gomes, cato scott, nunes, de masi, da vito, caputo, all of these colleagues, among others – for their support and encouragement, which are very much appreciated: the encouragement to do what we do, which is very basic – to enforce competition law and our state-aid rules so as to ensure fair competition. a lot of you mentioned small and medium sized businesses. these are businesses who pay their taxes. these are businesses who contribute by taking apprentices. these are businesses where you do not find the same statistics – as i am quite sure that my colleague pierre moscovici has presented to you – as you see with multinationals in terms of tax burden and taxes being paid. if taxes are not being paid by some, then they have to be paid by others and that is why it is not fair competition when some member states hand out selective benefits. a lot of you have been asking about the rule of law and the legal basis. this goes back to the very beginning, because our founding fathers saw very clearly that you cannot have fairness and fair competition if rich member states or decisive member states hand out selective benefits to some companies which are not available to others. the courts have said very clearly that state aid can come in many forms – it can be a very cheap piece of land, a very favourable loan, a bundle of cash in your hand, a tax benefit. but state aid it is, because it lowers your costs and lower costs are a thing which is not available to your competitors. secondly, the court has also said very clearly, talking about smes, stand-alone businesses and multinationals, that when multinationals do what they of course need to do, intra-holding trading, then there should be a resemblance to market conditions. because stand-alone companies, the small and medium-sized businesses who are on their own, they have to do their thing in the market. therefore the court has several times committed to the fact that we should be fair and transparent. this is also why, mr hayes, this cannot be a political decision. it is built on the rule of law, it is built on due process, and it will of course be tested by our courts because of the completely legitimate opportunity for ireland to appeal. but the court will hear nothing about party politics or emotions or gut feelings. they want the facts of the case, the court practice, how the case has been decided previously, and that of course will be tested. talking about what guidance we can give, we have too little case practice now to make great guidelines, but we have started to give guidance and to discuss in our high-level state-aid forum how to make sure that member states can work with this, because obviously it is the responsibility of the member states to make sure that national tax legislation, which is 100% a national issue, is upheld at the same time as what we have decided in common in eu state-aid rules. bernd lucke asked about why just now. well, actually this is a very good example of why we need transparency because this case was only opened because of hearings in the us senate. this was where data came out that enabled the commission to get concerned that something may not be as it ought to be, that there was a risk of state aid being handed out. mr kelly asked about retroactivity. no, this is exactly the way things are always dealt with. if a benefit is handed out as a selective benefit to a particular company, it has to be taken back. we do that with a 10-year perspective from the date we asked the first question. this tax ruling has been in place since 1998, but we do not go back the whole way. we do exactly as we used to do: maximum 10 years’ going back. it is not retroactivity. not a single rule has been changed. the only secrecy here was the tax rulings and that is why unpaid taxes have to be paid, just as well as other selective benefits will have to be repaid if they are seen to be illegal state aid. last but not least, state-aid control cannot change tax legislation. if tax legislation is to be changed, it is done by the front door. it is either in the national parliaments, as done in ireland a couple of years ago where the double irish was done away with; or it is by unanimity in the council of ministers, and we do that by the front door to propose to ministers to make things easier. i am talking about the common corporate consolidated tax base. not only will this make it more tricky for people to escape or to aggressively plan their taxation, but also it will make it much easier for small and medium-sized companies because they do not need to hire advisers in order to explain to them what they should be taxed on if they are active in more than one country, maybe just a few. sven giegold asked about resources. what we are doing right now is trying to empower member states to take as many state-aid decisions as possible themselves within the framework of the treaty. i think we are up to 80 or 90% now, which frees up resources for us to look at the more tricky cases where you have a true cross-border issue and where fair competition is at stake. i also, lastly, thank you for the encouragement to work within the oecd and the g20, because obviously this is a global matter. and obviously the highly qualified work done in the oecd to prevent base erosion and profit shifting is a cornerstone of what we can do in the future, because this is for all of us, and a global tax alliance is being formed in these years in order to ensure fair taxation, where everyone participates in paying their fair share, not more and not less, and where all the companies who pay their taxes to see that we have fair competition and that we are willing to work for it. thank you very much for a very qualified and encouraging debate.
in writing. our admiration for the multinational, global company apple is very high. but this admiration does not prevent us from finding that tens of billions of dollars of profits made in many european countries were channeled and reported in the name of a shell company registered in ireland, where an even lower tax rate was paid. (financial times, september 14/2016) the european commission has asked ireland to recover over $14 billion from apple. we welcome this decision by the european commission. global multinational companies need to understand that the tax avoidance phase in the countries where the revenue and profit generating activities are actually carried out is over.
blue-card question. – yes, mr diaz de mera, we are facing a terrible situation in that this european travel document is not recognised by most of the countries that should have to accept the return of a person. then how can we use it? on many occasions, they refuse to accept the person because they invoke some lack of documents or because they do not recognise different documents – including the european travel document. how are we going to deal with this situation?
mr president, it is of the utmost importance to improve the technical and security features of the documents required for the return of persons staying illegally in the union. however, i am afraid that the substantial increase in the rate of return of irregular migrants - which is also the rapporteur's stated objective - cannot be achieved by improving the quality of these documents alone. we have to face the uncomfortable question of what european member state authorities can do when an unauthorised migrant refuses to return to his home country. you didn't come here, risking your life, if necessary, to return with a travel document and a bureaucratic decision. refused asylum seekers are trying to avoid deportation en masse, which is not surprising, because for them, it's the worst-case scenario: they would do anything to stay in europe. so the question is how to justify rejected asylum applications, otherwise there is no point in having a refugee policy. if everyone can stay, both those who are refugees and those who are not, then it's not refugee policy, it's not even immigration policy, it's chaos. the reluctance of third countries to take back is understandable, as in many cases it is difficult to determine whether these are indeed their own nationals due to incomplete or misleading data. the change of situation and the implementation of the expulsions will test the authorities of the member states, but decisions will have to be taken quickly.
blue-card question. – we know very well there is an important link between education and employment. nevertheless, education is not a competence of the european union. at the same time we heard president juncker saying today that europe should be more social. if so, we need more social policies and more policies in terms of education. would the epp agree about making education a competence of the european union?
blue-card question. – ms clune, yes, you mentioned the social progress that was achieved and i truly agree with you. at the same time, you know, considering the ignorance of the commission’s and the council’s position on employment policies, would you not agree that it is against the spirit of the treaties and the spirit of good cooperation between the eu institutions, and that we, the european parliament, should take a strong position on this situation?
mr president, as i said earlier, we are talking about the labour market, we are talking about social policy. even today, president juncker has mentioned these things. but we cannot talk about social policies, about labour policies, without actually having a role in what it means to implement these policies at national level. the attitude of the council, the way it treats us and the way the member states, the governments of today, refuse to implement common measures, shows that we are far from finding solutions to these really important problems. i think it is important that we work with the commission on the methods by which we can really solve the whole problem of unemployment, the problem of the labour market. to do this we need a joint effort, which must go beyond the european skills agenda, must go beyond direct promotion with citizens, a coherent approach and the introduction of social skills at eu level.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr krasnodębski for his cooperation in this case. together with my political group, i am a strong supporter of european smes and entrepreneurs. they make an important contribution to the growth and socio-economic development of the european union. the european commission and the member states must ensure better conditions for the creation of quality jobs in the sme sector, through measures such as: facilitating access to information, advice, funding, but also through easier access to public procurement contracts. reducing unnecessary red tape, access to skilled workers, combating the underground economy and fraud, and ensuring a stable and predictable legislative framework, have been and are demanded by many smes in my country and beyond. many will now say 'easy said, hard done', but i believe that if we really want to increase the competitiveness of european smes, these measures must be implemented immediately and not just put on a report in the european parliament. the differences inherent between smes and multinational enterprises need to be addressed by ensuring a level playing field. as regards skills gaps in smes, cooperation between member states, enterprises, trade unions, educational institutions and other stakeholders is needed to adapt education and training systems, but also to tackle the skills gap with labour market needs. with their development, smes also have responsibilities towards their employees. reducing labour costs by reducing worker protection should never be a solution. these practices would expose smes to a major shortage of skilled workers, thus generating precariousness in europe. at the same time, smes must eliminate gender disparity and guarantee equal pay for equal work between men and women. europe owes a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises and must ensure an effective regulatory framework that encourages investment that promotes sustainable growth and quality jobs for smes.
madam president, i would like to express my appreciation to mr karas, to the others who have worked on this excellent report. i would like to welcome the proposal by the president of the european commission to extend the life and increase the volume of the european investment fund, which already helps to finance over two hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. i fully support the proposals in the report to encourage these companies to use the full potential of the single market for financing. in this respect, i think vice-president dombrovskis said something very special, namely that now more than ever we need a capital markets union, given brexit. i believe that as the digital economy advances, the european commission should come up with a series of new proposals for financial support, especially to innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, enterprises that work with ideas and applications across all means of the digital economy.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to start by saying that i support the rapporteur's question. at the same time, i appreciate your blunt response. that's right: who could argue that we need a minimum income so that citizens can no longer live in poverty? millions of people, as it says here. at the same time, this income must be created and, of course, it is a matter of subsidiarity, but, commissioner, you must advocate the creation of economic growth and enable the member states, which now have very low incomes, romania, bulgaria and other countries, to have income, to create income through jobs, through economic growth, through competitiveness, otherwise we will not be able to achieve uniformity at european level. it will not be possible to give this minimum income equally in all countries. and i think we can't talk about this unless we start from social cohesion policies, investments. as i said yesterday, the strategic investment fund has not achieved its goal and it needs to be directed to the poor areas, to get those people out of poverty.
member of the commission. poverty reduction is one of the five pillars of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth. it is also my personal belief that we must do everything we can to reduce poverty. it is necessary to do so out of respect for the citizen, because too great inequality hinders growth, with all its consequences, and because it is just. we must make europe a place where people know they are protected. but europe is all of us together. these are the various european political institutions and all political levels. david casa, jutta steinruck and others made it clear yesterday: if we want to develop policies that people feel the results of, then we must do it together. only then will people see policies developed that they can use in their daily lives. in the answer to the oral questions at the beginning of this debate i explained what is going on and how the european commission is using its powers to promote a minimum income in the member states. you know better than anyone that the european union has no direct legislative power in this area. but we are using the instruments available and we are encouraging member states to do the right thing and to do everything possible. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to the wide consultation on the european social pillar, in which parliament is very actively involved, and i thank you for that. the purpose of this broad debate is to develop a new frame of reference that we can use to test and screen the employment and social policies of the member states and the european union. we want to see if social policy ensures sustainable systems that are financially sustainable, and adequate systems that adequately protect people. you know that in the new semester approach to social protection we are emphasising two points: sustainability and adequacy. i hope that this consultation will help to achieve a consensus throughout europe that the european union needs more convergence, and that it needs to be upwards rather than downwards. ultimately, we need to work with all levels to come up with a policy where people know we're not leaving anyone behind. in the meantime, we in the commission will continue to row with the belts we have. we're maximizing the powers we have. we are continuing to work on the development of reference budgets, which help member states to develop the right policies and which help us to monitor member states' policies. the exchange of good practice is an important part of this. i can assure you that the european commission will not let this matter go. but, as one of the honourable members has said: if we want upward convergence, if we want everyone to have opportunities, then a minimum income alone is not enough. that will depend on our whole policy. someone else has also specifically said: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is precisely the aim of the policy of this commission: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. you heard that again yesterday in the state of the union. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the common organization of the market in bananas.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs not only for their sound and constructive contribution to this report, but mainly for their genuine commitment and work for the protection of human rights and for combating discrimination. in 2000, i was part of a human rights organisation network that advocated for the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation at the eu level. when the two equality directives were adopted we considered it an historical moment, because discriminating against other human beings is one of the most despicable behaviours one could imagine. sixteen years later, i have the privilege as a member of this european parliament to evaluate how the employment equality directive has been implemented. in 2000, a duty was imposed on our member states to provide protection against discrimination in the areas of employment and occupational and vocational training. it comes as no surprise that, while some member states have gone beyond its requirement by extending protection against discrimination to other areas, including access to goods and services, others are still pretty far from implementing it at the minimum level. the report highlights the necessity of collecting equality data both at the level of member states and the european union in order to make it easier to prove the existence of discrimination and, particularly, indirect discrimination. there is quite a discrepancy between the levels of discrimination experienced and discrimination reported. awareness-raising, with the help of equality bodies and the social partners, is of utmost importance at all levels of society considering that the victims themselves still have difficulty in recognising discrimination, let alone fighting it. i cannot stress enough the role of equality bodies in awareness-raising and data election in helping the victims but also the employers to understand how to change their policies in line with equality requirements. the impartiality of such bodies must be ensured and their activity supported, including through adequate funding. i particularly want to emphasise the issue of multiple discrimination, which is often a consequence of the existence of fragmented rules and standards across member states. if it is difficult for the victims of one type of discrimination to understand the situation and act, we can easily imagine their difficulties when they face multiple discrimination. it is important to note that access to justice is still limited in many discrimination cases, and the report strongly recommends that the member states ensure that victims can obtain accessible legal advice and assistance at all stages of the legal process, including confidential counselling in person by equality bodies or appropriate intermediaries. legal redress is not only important for the victims, but it also has an educational impact on society because pursuing court cases and ensuring adequate representation are still problematic in some cases. we asked the member states to find ways to help victims including, for example, by means of court tax exemptions or reductions or legal aid and assistance from specialised ngos. in fact, it is important to recognise the legal standing of ngos with a legitimate interest in the relevant judicial or administrative procedures. sharing good practices among member states is a must. acknowledging the importance of fighting all forms of discrimination, i truly hope that this house will adopt this report with a large majority.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, renate weber, and the others who worked on the report. equal treatment in employment and employment should no longer be questioned by anyone from all points of view: gender, nationality, religion. moreover, the constitutions of the member states clearly provide for equal treatment. the problems arise when we have to apply them in practice. i wanted to take the floor to underline the importance of the report and to raise an alarm about the lack of equal treatment in the workplace or when applying for a job, particularly when it comes to people with disabilities or women in the hiring process. there are still cases of harassment at work or pressure to leave work. i believe in the need for equal treatment by respecting the values and competences of each person, which is why i support this report.
mr president in assessing the application of the relevant equal treatment directive, we cannot ignore the unjustified limitation of the scope of the legislation. discrimination on grounds of membership of a national minority is not part of the wording of the directive. i therefore welcome the call to the commission in the report to monitor all types of discrimination. it is time for the council to finally act on the adoption of a horizontal eu anti-discrimination directive to protect european citizens against discrimination outside the workplace. in my libe opinion, i also proposed that the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of membership of a national minority should be included in the legislative and control direction. discrimination is a daily experience for millions of eu citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate demonstrates how important it is to remain vigilant and continue fighting against all forms of discrimination, notably on the labour market. as i said, i hope, and the commission trusts, that the proposal for a horizontal directive will soon be adopted by the european council. the european directives have set up a comprehensive europe-wide legal framework against discrimination that has been transposed in all member states. in 2014, the commission reviewed their application and found that often there is a lack of awareness, sometimes a weak implementation and enforcement at national level. the commission has, therefore, further developed support to member states in order to facilitate the full implementation of those directives, in particular by ensuring that the investment priorities of the european structural funds such as the european social fund properly include the fight against discrimination in employment. as you know, with věra jourová we last year launched a new initiative to promote work-life balance, with the main objective to ensure that women are not obliged to choose between a family and a professional career. ms weber’s report and its recommendations will help the commission to further monitor and, where needed, improve the policy framework on equality on the labour market. i thank you for the report and this debate and i thank you for your attention.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and all the colleagues for their comments. the report highlights the need for adequate training for all relevant stakeholders: from employees of authorities of all kinds to law—enforcement bodies, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. however, i am now thinking that we, as public representatives, could also benefit from such training because i have a hard time understanding how the implementation of a fundamental right, which is provided for by article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, could be a matter of subsidiarity. we have well-established european court of human rights jurisprudence on the restriction of the fundamental right to a certain extent, but more than that should not be accepted. moreover, i am wondering how we could accept the non-observance of court decisions: that contradicts everything i had learned and thought over the past 30 years about the meaning of the rule of law. i want to stress that, for me, adequate training not only refers to knowledge of legislation in court decisions but also includes training on understanding cultural differences and on acknowledging unconscious bias. since 2007, when i became a member of this parliament, together with many colleagues i have been advocating the adoption of a horizontal anti-discrimination directive outlawing discrimination in access to goods and services across the eu. nine years later, yes, i find it is a disgrace that this directive is still blocked in the council by a coalition of some member states. i cannot but welcome the optimism of commissioner thyssen that the directive will become a reality soon, so let us stay optimistic and let us hope.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as we concluded yesterday during the debate on the latest cases of job losses, at caterpillar and alstom, there can be no substitute for a long-term vision for the reindustrialisation of europe. that being said, in our global world there can always be unforeseen forces – such as structural changes in world trade patterns, financial crises or a slowdown of growth in europe or elsewhere, affecting demand – that can hit our industries and our workers. it is thus essential that we have a reliable eu-level cushion to protect our workers from such a blow. the european globalisation adjustment fund has already proved its worth in this regard in many unfortunate cases of plant closure in europe, especially through the support it has provided for thousands of lower-skilled, and thus more vulnerable, workers in regaining employment. this report not only offers a comprehensive evaluation of the fund’s strengths and weaknesses but it also succeeds in identifying many ways to make it more efficient in the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur for this and for our great collaboration. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
it's a two-card answer. we share the same views on social issues, and we share the same concerns.
mr president, i wanted to speak in my capacity as the socialist group's special rapporteur on the committee on budgets for such projects relating to the european globalisation adjustment fund. i have often been a speaker and therefore i can make the following suggestions. the fund should be made more accessible by reducing the threshold for redundancies. thus, former employees of smes can also benefit from this fund. the commission also has to ensure that it is used correctly and uniformly at european level. some states are overusing funds, while others are underusing them. i therefore believe that the commission should take over the communication on this subject from the member states and ensure that it is used effectively. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful mechanism, as the previous speakers have said, to combat unemployment. but we really need to find a way to fund it properly. the fund is a rapid response to the unfortunate situations generated by globalisation. but we also need a long-term response and that is why it is important that it is also supported by other european funds.
in writing. the main objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to act quickly and effectively to counter unforeseen difficulties in the labour market. the instrument has helped to mitigate the negative effects of restructuring by supporting the sectors most affected by the crisis. egf measures are temporary in nature but in the long term should pursue new job prospects, depending on the employment potential in the regions affected by the relocation or the reduction of the activity of certain industries. there are regions with a negative unemployment rate; therefore, i believe that egf measures should also include options such as support for the relocation of workers affected by unemployment to areas with high employment potential. last year, the restructuring of the steel company mechel turda in my region led to the dismissal of 1 000 workers, who received eur 3.6 million in egf support, but bureaucratic procedures led to delays and subsequent penalties for the romanian government. we should pay particular attention to monitoring the impact of globalisation, providing support to businesses to anticipate sectoral changes and to buy time for the re-professionalisation of workers at risk of redundancies.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! when a state tries to restore law and order by ignoring the established legal order, it can easily lead to chaos and anarchy. it is very important that those who speak out against the many unsolved murders in the philippines do not condone the use or distribution of drugs. it's a very dangerous disease that can eat away at society. hard action is therefore absolutely justified and necessary. but there's a difference between the tough action of government agencies and the crackdown of common criminals. unfortunately, in the philippines, this difference is becoming less and less noticeable. it is the responsibility of the political leadership to act in accordance with the law and in accordance with the law against drugs and not to encourage citizens to take their own decisions. otherwise, chaos, fear and uncertainty will be inevitable, which is not in the interest of the philippines or its international partners.
blue-card question. – mr sebastia, yes there is a terrible situation in somalia and i refer to a special subject: the killing of children. more than 2 000 died last year. do you not think, as we have commissioner stylianides with us here today, that the european union should launch a programme for the benefit of the somali children – an eu programme for their education and health mainly?
on behalf of the epp group. mr. president, this is the second time in this term that we have discussed the situation in zimbabwe. last year we expressed concern about the harassment of human rights defenders, dissidents, journalists and other members of civil society. today we are forced to condemn the violent repression of the protests of the last months. true, the protests have multiplied. the citizens of zimbabwe have enough reasons to protest. corruption, mismanagement, poverty amplified by drought, falling mineral prices. after three and a half decades of robert mugabe, the only leader zimbabwe has had since independence, the country is bankrupt, it's completely destroyed. the resolution we are voting on denounces this situation and is a call for change, a political transition based on free and fair elections, respect for human rights and the rule of law. this is the only way to zimbabwe.
we condemn with this resolution the brutal regime, the brutal dictatorship imposed by robert mugabe and we send a message of support to the people of zimbabwe. what's going on there is an absolutely brutal, violent and blatant violation of human rights, of freedom of expression, of the right to a fair trial. for example, protesters are beaten by the police, they are arrested, there are political influences on judges. in september this year, police banned all demonstrations hours before 18 parties that were preparing to hold a peaceful demonstration could do so. now, those who protest against the horrors and poverty are united by social networks, which makes the government respond by trying to control the internet even more strongly. this year, four million people in zimbabwe need to get food aid, and it needs to get to them and not be politically manipulated.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointment of a new a member of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is very important to establish a dedicated european travel document for the return of third-country nationals subject to a return decision and i welcome this regulation, which aims to provide for a uniform format and enhanced technical and security features to ensure a wider acceptance by third countries and the increased use of such document for readmissions. as things stand today the eu system to return irregular migrants is not effective. in 2014, less than 40% of the total number of return decisions issued by member states have been enforced. however, around 60% of the time, the facilitation of this return – even when voluntary and wanted by the person themselves – cannot occur due to the fact that the country of origin refuses to accept that person back into their country due to a lack of documents or because they do not recognise such documents. returns should be carried out in a humane manner, ensure the safe return and the safety of the returnees and ensure that such returns are carried out in full respect of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed regulation for the establishment of a dedicated european travel document for third-country nationals subject to return. however, these returns should be closely supervised and should take place with full respect for the fundamental rights of the individuals concerned.
in writing. ‒ returning persons who do not qualify for international protection within the eu is one of the priorities of the european union. i voted for this report, which should improve the rates of return of irregular migrants, in order to maintain the integrity of the eu asylum system.
in writing. ‒ in the context of increasing migration to the eu by third-country nationals, this proposal for a regulation could not be more timely. i voted in favour of it, as harmonising the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals should be a way of gaining control of the current migration crisis, fostering higher return rates while reducing the strain on the eu asylum system. strengthening the technical and security standards of the travel document would lower the administrative burden of the readmission processes both in the eu and in third countries, and would reduce instances of third countries not accepting the return papers of illegally staying third-country nationals.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to establish a dedicated european travel document for the return of third-country nationals subject to a return decision. this regulation provides for a uniform format and enhanced technical and security features, with the aim of ensuring wider acceptance of the document by third countries and increasing its use for readmissions. some 60% of returns cannot be facilitated because the country of origin refuses to accept the person in question back into their country because of a lack of documents or the non-recognition of documents. there should be a guarantee that returns are carried out in a humane manner, ensuring the safe return and the safety of the returnees, and that fundamental rights are fully respected. i therefore support this regulation, which ensures all of the above.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the capital markets union is to help businesses tap into diverse sources of capital from anywhere in the european union, to make markets work efficiently and to give investors and depositors additional ways to use their money to stimulate growth and create jobs. therefore, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions for its functioning, it is appropriate to establish a regulatory framework for prospectuses at union level. i voted to guarantee investor protection and market efficiency by strengthening the single capital market.
in writing. ‒ the review of the prospectus directive is one of the capital markets union (cmu) action plan’s early and high-priority measures, and i support its main aim: to reduce one of the principal regulatory hurdles that issuers face when offering their equity and debt securities to retail and wholesale investors. i also support the concept of disclosure rules which are tailored to issuers’ specific needs. it is very important to make the prospectus a relevant tool for informing potential investors, especially in a cross-border context. in order to create a real cmu and to deepen eu capital markets, it is more than useful to create the same rules for all companies in all member states, thus reducing the fragmentation of practices across the member states and moving towards closer integration of the eu markets – although, regarding the summary of the prospectus, i believe that this should be translated into the official language of the country where the security is issued, in order to foster cross-border investment.
in writing. ‒ i was the s&d group's shadow rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on this report and i know how necessary it is, especially for smes. at the same time, the capital markets union is a complex issue, which is why i voted to postpone the vote and return to the committee responsible for the substance. the prospectus is a key element in the process of building the capital markets union, but also a 'gateway' to european capital markets for issuers in need of funding. it is important to remove unnecessary barriers to access to public markets and to encourage smes to launch public offerings of real estate securities by reducing unnecessary red tape and reducing costs, in order to facilitate the fulfilment of administrative obligations. at the same time, the prospectus should be a relevant tool, ensuring rules adapted to the specific needs of all issuers, in particular smes, frequent issuers and secondary transactions, but also potential investors.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of regulations that simplify the lives of smes through the standardisation of documents for selling securities is long overdue.
in writing. ‒ this regulation represents an indispensable step forward towards the completion of the capital markets union. i voted for the report, which will ensure market efficiency and investor protection while enhancing the single market for capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step towards completing the capital markets union, addressing the issue of disclosure in the event of a public offer of securities or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market. harmonisation of those rules provides better protection for investors and ensures the smooth functioning of the internal market by reducing fragmentation. this will reduce the number of persons subject to different rules in each member state, reducing the risk that prospectuses approved in one member state cannot be used in another member state.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because it aims to simplify the lives of smes by allowing them to use a standard document – easy for anyone to fill without the help of banks or lawyers – to sell their securities. helping cross-border investment and deepening the capital market is at the heart of the proposals. but, in order to create a real capital markets union and to deepen eu capital markets, we have to move away from 28 different national regimes by creating the same rules for all companies in all member states. with this report, we will be able to achieve or improve several important things for european citizens, such as: reduced legal costs and red tape; reduced fragmentation of practices across member states and a move towards deeper integration of the capital markets in the eu; unlocked liquidity from institutional investors who are currently facing a low-interest-rate environment and sitting on capital; and harmonised investor protection rules across the different pieces of legislation.
in writing. ‒ eu heads of state or government agreed on 7 march 2016 to work on a set of principles to reach an agreement with turkey, including relocating for each syrian arriving in the greek islands who is readmitted by turkey, another syrian from turkey to the member states. large-scale resettlement through national and multilateral systems is necessary to reduce the pressure of migration on member states by providing a legal and safe pathway to enter the union. i voted for this new step in solving this humanitarian crisis facing the european union and which implicitly affects every citizen of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that we managed to propose a compromise which highlighted the need of the european parliament to commit and stick to the decisions taken under relocation. we must show more solidarity between ourselves and create a truly european asylum system. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is important to show solidarity towards greece and italy, which are facing a tremendous volume of asylum applications. i welcome the creation of a european asylum system.
in writing. ‒ the rising number of asylum seekers in greece and in italy makes the need for emergency relocation places an important issue to address. i voted for this report, which will provide large-scale resettlement, humanitarian admission and other forms of legal admission for migrants in order to relieve the migratory pressure on greece and italy.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report by voting today because i consider that it makes important additions and amendments to the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, which is currently being implemented in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the migration phenomenon affecting the european union in recent years has demonstrated the need to develop a unified approach to asylum policy at european level. as the majority of refugees come from conflict zones in syria and iraq, their asylum status is not in question. however, the main problem is the pressure on the southern border countries, such as greece and italy, which cannot handle the large numbers of refugees on their own. in this context, the european commission reacted and proposed to distribute refugees among the member states according to quotas established according to the capacity of each country. some member states have not agreed to these quotas, resulting in refugee crowding in camps in greece and italy, which is creating problems for those countries. this is contrary to the spirit of solidarity which underpins the european union and jeopardises the very viability of the european project in the period ahead. in these circumstances, the european parliament is the most appropriate forum to draw attention to the fact that the refugee problem must be solved through cooperation between member states and that no state can evade these obligations by using nationalist-populist tactics.
in writing. ‒ in designing and implementing its policies and activities, the union must ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market, capable of addressing the serious effects of unemployment and guaranteeing a high level of employment. the eu needs holistic policies and public investment to tackle unemployment and poverty. the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased by five million, the employment rate in some countries has not yet reached its pre-crisis level, and in some member states the percentage of young people not in employment, education or training exceeds 20%, while the drop-out rate reaches 23%. the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy in the social and employment field must remain a key objective of the employment policy of the member states. i voted in favour of this report because we need a set of guidelines to give guidance to member states on defining their national reform programmes and implementing reforms.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union shall develop a coordinated employment strategy and in particular promote a trained, skilled and adaptable workforce and labour markets able to react rapidly to economic developments. the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission enables the european union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. today, almost 120 million union citizens, a quarter of its total population, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i voted for the immediate encouragement of member states to create new national systems that lead to decent living conditions. member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, should effectively and promptly address the serious problem of unemployment and facilitate and invest in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i believe that member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, must find solutions to the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, address the issue of accessibility for the most vulnerable groups by promoting entrepreneurship among young people by supporting the creation and development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to increase the employment rate of women and men.
in writing. ‒ i find the council’s and commission’s ignorance of the ep contribution to the guidelines for employment policies of member states most regrettable and i support the call on the commission to alter its proposal accordingly and on the council to take the amended guidelines into account, in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market able to address the severe impact of unemployment, secure a high level of employment, and ensure decent working conditions, including national minimum basic income schemes and social protection. i believe we made a very valuable contribution both last year and this year, so far, ensuring that our objectives in employment and social policies are strongly reflected, and i therefore believe that our position must be taken into account, as the council’s and commission’s ignorance is against the spirit of the treaties and the spirit of good cooperation between the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ it is paramount for the commission and council to take into account the european parliament resolution of 8 july 2015! it is disappointing to see that the european parliament is disregarded on matters that are of great importance. i make a further call for the european institutions to take into account the amendments tabled regarding an integrated labour market that can address the pitfalls of unemployment, securing and maintaining high levels of employment, while offering national minimum basic income schemes and social protection.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s current growth strategy has five ambitious objectives on employment, education, social inclusion, innovation and climate/energy that should be reached by 2020. entitled europe 2020, its initiative regarding the agenda for new skills and jobs will help the eu reach 75% of the working-age population between 20 and 64 under employment. i have voted for this report that calls for more significant efforts to be made in order to reach the established targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because employment indicators such as the activity rate, the youth employment rate and long-term unemployment were introduced in the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. these indicators will help to provide a clearer analysis leading to the design and implementation of labour market reforms as well as additional social reforms. the report also proposes that member states reduce red tape in order to reduce excessive burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as major political groups in the european parliament all want to send a clear message to the council that its position must be taken into account as their ignorance is against the spirit of the treaties and the good cooperation between the eu institutions. my colleagues and i in the s&d group very much regret the council and commission ignorance of the ep contribution to the guidelines for employment policies of member states and call on the commission to alter its proposal accordingly. furthermore, we call on the council to take the amended guidelines into account in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market able to address the severe impact of unemployment, secure a high level of employment, and ensure decent working conditions including national minimum basic income schemes and social protection.
in writing. ‒ the resolution focuses on general issues and gives strong backing to the eu proposal calling specifically for robust action to fight corruption and tackle organised crime involved in wildlife trafficking; more effective measures for tackling illegal online trade; full use of effective sanctions; and joint international cooperation on law enforcement. member states must show political will and step up efforts to combat the illegal wildlife trade taking place within the eu. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it calls on the european union to apply the precautionary principle in all its decisions and listing proposals. the resolution encourages member states to promote initiatives designed to improve the welfare, during marketing, of live animals listed in cites. it must be ensured that each specimen is prepared and shipped in such a way as to minimise the risk of injury, damage to health or cruel treatment, and that the destination is adequately equipped to host it. i express strong support for the listing proposals submitted by the eu to regulate strictly the trade in barbary macaques and african grey parrots, both endangered species. corruption in the trade in wild species can be found at any point of the trade chain, therefore it is essential to introduce solid and effective anti-corruption measures in the fight against wildlife trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) was drafted as a result of a resolution adopted in 1963 following a meeting of members of the international union for conservation of nature. as an international agreement between governments, it aims to ensure that international trade in species of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. i voted for this motion for a resolution setting out objectives for the cites cop17 conference.
in writing. ‒ evidence that the illegal trade in wildlife has become the fourth biggest black market, after drugs, people smuggling and the illegal arms trade, underlines the fact that the importance of cites is not only environmental. the eu is a large market for this illegal trade and also plays a role in transiting wildlife to other markets around the world. more dissuasive sanctions and improved enforcement regimes are needed to provide effective deterrents, and this requires more resources for national authorities and better international cooperation. i welcome the proposal in this resolution for new eu legislation on importing and selling illegally caught wildlife, which would probably involve the expansion of traceability measures. this would be an important step.
in writing. ‒ the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from the end of this month, will be an important moment for reiterating some of the eu's strategic objectives in this area. as cites is the largest global agreement in force on the conservation of wildlife, having been ratified by 181 states, including the eu and its 28 member states, it can become the most important tool to combat the illegal wildlife trade, which has become the fourth largest black market after drug, human and arms trafficking. the eu is a major transit and destination market for illegal trade in cites protected wild birds, turtles, reptiles and plants. the union's position should therefore focus on tackling organised crime and corruption related to wildlife trafficking, combating illegal online trade, using effective sanctions, prohibiting the trade of protected wildlife species in the eu, detection measures in the transport sector and prohibiting the trade of ivory. these are perfectly justified objectives and i support the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ postal services have undergone major changes since the full opening of the market in the postal services sector in 2008. on the one hand, paper-based communications have decreased in several member states, and on the other hand, the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal operators has increased due to online shopping. the revenue from parcel delivery and express delivery accounts for more than half of the total revenue of the postal sector. these services are an essential component of communication in the eu internal market and a factor that contributes fundamentally to ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion, as well as to the development of the single market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need to promote and guarantee real competition in the postal services sector.
in writing. ‒ postal services have undergone major changes since the full opening of the market in the postal services sector in 2008. the increase in the volume of online purchases has led to a recovery and an increase in the number of parcels transported by postal operators. quality postal services are an essential component of communication in the eu internal market. in 2011, the european postal sector recorded an annual turnover of eur 91 billion, representing 0,72% of the union's gdp. approximately 1,2 million people are employed by postal service providers. i voted for better working conditions, guaranteed to all workers in the postal services sector.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which calls on the commission to improve the definition of universal service in order to guarantee a certain level of service for consumers, takes into account market changes in different member states, fosters economic growth and social cohesion, and facilitates coordination between national regulatory authorities (nras) with a view to greater interoperability in cross-border delivery and to monitoring their regulatory activities. member states are urged to ensure good working conditions for all employees in the sector, to support the role and independence of nras, and to harmonise licensing procedures further to reduce unjustified barriers to market entry. finally, i welcome the fact that we kept the general definition of universal service, we insisted on postal service as tool of social cohesion and we stated that member states have to ensure good working conditions for all employees in the sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i support technological progress and the digitalisation of the postal services sector as a means of modernising and diversifying postal services. this has had a strong impact on working conditions and employment in this sector, especially in remote, rural and mountain areas, with very high growth in the parcel delivery sector due to the development of e-commerce. as a member of the tran committee, i believe that quality postal services are an essential component of communication in the eu internal market. the european union postal sector remains a key contributor to ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. the reliable and affordable delivery of parcels and packages is essential for the single market. other sectors such as e-commerce, publishing, mail order, insurance, banking and advertising are heavily dependent on the development of the postal infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the volume of letter deliveries has decreased in recent years, and this has led to a decrease in the competitiveness of the market. i voted for the report, which calls for greater transparency regarding pricing conditions and performance in postal services.
in writing. ‒ key objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services have been achieved following the revision of postal services in 2008. postal services went through formidable changes after the full market opening of the sector in that year. the growth of e-commerce increased the business-to-consumer segment of the parcel and packets market so that, europe-wide, postal services account for 0.62% of the eu’s gdp. i voted for this report, which promotes and safeguards effective competition in the postal services sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the implementation of the postal services directive, while making substantive additions. i consider it very important that, in the context of competition on this market, consumer rights are protected. in this regard, simplification of complaint handling procedures and dispute resolution mechanisms are very important. also, given the cross-border nature of these services, i believe that these procedures must protect the rights of consumers in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the review of the postal services directive has provided the opportunity to examine the current state of the postal services market, with a view to protect the rights of consumers while adopting the use of new technological developments. given the fact that postal services are a fundamental right for all eu citizens, but also taking into account the decline in letter volume over the past few years, the report has aimed to provide, first of all, a definition of universal service. an improved postal services system would contribute to the social cohesion and economic growth of the union, and would facilitate coordination between national regulatory authorities. the report also calls for improved transparency as regards public pricing conditions and asks for transparency checks where prices are not controlled by competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the implementation of the postal services directive. welcomes the request of the rapporteur to the commission to facilitate and strengthen cooperation and coordination between national regulatory authorities to ensure greater efficiency and interoperability in cross-border deliveries and to oversee the regulatory activities of the nras - including the provision of universal service - with a view to ensuring a uniform approach in the application of european legislation and the harmonisation of the postal services market within the eu. it recalls that the universal service must evolve in line with the technical, economic and social context and the needs of users, and that the postal services directive gives member states the necessary flexibility to take account of local characteristics and to ensure the long-term sustainability of the provision of universal services.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps play an important role for the european economy in terms of employment and growth, accounting in 2014 for 67% of total employment, 71,4% of employment growth and 58% of value added in the eu non-financial corporate sector. in view of the above figures, sme financing should have a broader basis, thus ensuring optimal access to finance for smes at every stage of the development of an enterprise. due to differences between member states and between regions in terms of financing conditions and needs of smes, they face a number of challenges such as the amount and cost of available financing, economic volatility, slow economic growth and more. i have voted in favour of this report because i support the need for a diversified, well-regulated and stable financial services sector that offers a wide range of tailored and cost-effective financing options, thus best serving the financing needs of smes.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has been a greater constraint during the crisis than for larger enterprises, even though these enterprises are dependent on bank loans, which are their most important source of financing. it is important that smes have in-depth knowledge of complementary market-based sources of finance. we voted for a diversified, well-regulated and stable financial services sector that offers a wide range of cost-effective and tailor-made financing options. in view of the high rate of youth unemployment, encouraging the development of entrepreneurship among younger generations is a viable solution to address this crisis.
in writing. ‒ i believe that adequate training, support, access to finance and increasing the diversity of finance for businesses are essential, and that special training is needed to prepare young people for the green economy. we must not forget that preventing environmental damage and the transition to a low-carbon economy is a societal challenge that also offers new business opportunities for businesses that bring green products and services to the market.
in writing. ‒ i support this balanced and far-reaching report, due to the proposed measures that defend public and private investments, alternative financing tools and special attention to smes run by women and minorities. i agree that we should encourage smes to consider the whole eu as their home market and to use the potential of the single market for their financing needs. we need to ensure coordination, consistency and synergies between european instruments and programmes for smes such as the european structural and investment funds. it is also essential to promote a holistic approach to the dissemination of information on all eu funding opportunities by encouraging the member states, the eib and national promotional banks, in this context, to provide information on financing options and loan guarantee schemes. the report points out very well the financial problems suffered by smes and the situation of uncertainty experienced by suppliers generated by late payments by larger companies, public institutions and authorities, and thus i believe that the commission should, during the review of the late payment directive, assess the introduction of specific measures to simplify the payment procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i am co-chair of the sme intergroup of the european parliament and former minister delegate for smes, business and tourism in my country, but also because i have worked in the real economy as an sme, so i know the difficulties they face. the karas report thus calls on the commission to support smes in particular, as they have suffered considerable constraints in terms of financing compared to larger enterprises. as there is a great diversity among the types of european smes, diversity is also needed in terms of funding options and this initiative is a priority for the capital markets union. it is also essential that smes have better knowledge of the costs, benefits and risks associated with financing arrangements in order to create a culture of capital markets. a simple and harmonised financing system is needed, which ensures a level playing field for all enterprises and is the best way to ensure the development of smes.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the european parliament’s contribution to the capital markets union. it follows the work initiated by the commission with the green paper on retail financial services. the commission should pay particular attention to the specificities of smes and ensure that cross-border activities in the field of retail financial services lead to better access to finance. the report calls for measures defending public and private investments and alternative financing tools.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because smes are key players in the eu economy in terms of their share in employment and value added. according to the directorate-general for internal market industry, smes employ close to 90 million persons. bank loans constitute the main source of external funding for corporations in the majority of member states. companies in southern and eastern europe are most reliant on banks loans. the global financial crisis has left a large private-sector debt overhang, and high levels of non-performing loans (npls), in several european countries. smes across the eu thus face many difficulties in obtaining bank loans, as the result of differences in terms and conditions for loans or credit in the eu.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) represent a substantial part of the eu economy, making access to finance for smes an important topic on the policy agenda. i voted for this report, which aims to increase smes’ knowledge of complementary market-based funding sources and the use of new technologies in relation to new funding opportunities.
in writing. ‒ access to finance for smes is essential to the wellbeing of the european economy and to growth, as smes account for 67% of employment in europe. bank lending was and remains the most used source of sme finance, however, as the resolution rightly concludes, the financial crisis brought home the realisation that diversifying access to finance for smes is important to avoid over-dependence on the bank sector. the resolution suggests ways to diversify channels of funding for smes, highlighting conditions that would create a conducive environment for sme financing. removing structural barriers (i.e. reducing red tape and harmonising national legislation governing the sme sector across the eu), developing a capital markets union in the eu, encouraging a culture of crowd-funding, introducing innovative technology (fintech), and matching smes with investors are just a few of the concrete examples cited. to conclude, the resolution is very promising and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i believe this is a balanced and far-reaching report which calls for measures to defend public and private investments, alternative financing tools and special attention to smes run by women and minorities. it is imperative for the commission to pay particular attention to the specificities of smes and ensure that cross-border activities in the field of retail financial services lead to better access to finance for smes. it is especially important to emphasise that financial education for smes is not only key to increasing bank lending. it is also key to expanding the use and acceptance of capital market solutions as well as to encouraging women and young people to start and expand their businesses, allowing for a better assessment of costs, benefits and the associated risks. encouraging women and young people is a very important aspect and one which has my strong support.
in writing. ‒ smes play a very important role in the european economy, accounting for 67% of total employment and making a major contribution to economic growth in the eu. the report underlines the need for a diversified strategy in legislation and initiatives to support smes and calls on the commission to create a series of programmes and tools to support enterprises in their start-up and development phases, taking into account their turnover and financing needs. moreover, these programmes should ensure equality between women and men entrepreneurs. member states are encouraged to reduce administrative barriers for smes and to create one-stop shops that centrise all legislative requirements for entrepreneurs. as regards the financing of these enterprises, bank loans are the main source and, in this regard, the report recommends that member states work with the financial sector to ensure full and equal access to bank loans for all smes. furthermore, by supporting the principle of diversified financing, the report proposes the possibility of private-to-private lending to facilitate access to new funds for entrepreneurs. i therefore voted in favour of the report on access to finance for smes.
in writing. the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme finance in the capital markets union is a welcome initiative. we voted for the report which comes up with interesting solutions for european smes' access to sources of finance. one of these proposals concerns the possibility of introducing 'lending funds' schemes, which would make ecb money available to banks for the sole purpose of lending to smes.
madam president, please. the situation of smes requires a differentiated approach. regional differences between member states should be taken into account. the lack of skilled labour is already causing huge problems in the countries of central and eastern europe, due to the lack of development of vocational training systems and mass emigration. some countries have a significant proportion of their active population working abroad, typically in western european eu member states, reducing the structural labour shortages in these countries. the answer to this phenomenon is not to lock down, to reduce foreign labour by any administrative means, but to raise wages in the new member states. as long as there are eight to ten times the average wage differences between member states, we should not expect any change in labour migration between member states. migration will always be present, and labour-sending countries may face a number of problems - demographic imbalances, unsustainable pension systems, labour shortages - in the decades ahead.
in writing. ‒ unemployment is one of the problems facing the european union, affecting 23 million people in 2015, including 4.5 million young people, women and men. this culminates in hundreds of refugees arriving in the member states, which means that there is an even greater need for jobs to ensure the good integration of these people. in this context, the european authorities need to support smes as they are a major employer in the eu market, providing two thirds of all private sector jobs in the eu. in order to ensure a sound environment for businesses to grow, but also to enhance their job-creating potential, national and european policies need to address mainly issues of competence, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, arguing for the importance of a stable environment and the need to reduce the burden on smes.
in writing. ‒ one of the main crises facing europe is unemployment. due to its high rate, more and more young unemployed people are putting off starting a family, and the huge flow of young people leaving high unemployment countries for central europe is creating social tensions in the host countries. unemployment affects 23 million people, including 4.5 million young people, women and men, under the age of 25. in the last ten years, smes have created 85% of jobs in europe. smes must be at the heart of the european union's enterprise policy and all necessary measures should be taken to strengthen the job creation potential of this sector. i voted for ensuring a level playing field for smes in terms of their position in relation to large companies. better information of small businesses and entrepreneurs on the different possibilities of funding from european funds is needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on access to finance for smes, as i believe that smes need a favourable business environment in which green ideas can be easily developed, financed and brought to market. re-manufacturing, repair, maintenance, recycling and green design have immense potential to become engines of economic growth and job creation, while making significant contributions to solving climate challenges.
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european economy. hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow smes to create sustainable quality jobs. the focus of the report at hand is on which conditions would need to be met in order to better harness the job creation potential of smes. i welcome the introduction of important elements such as social and occupational protection; social enterprises and cooperatives; quality job creation; the problems of precarious employment, letter box companies, bogus self-employment, unfair competition and the gender gap with regard to employment and pay; the fight against tax avoidance and the shadow economy; the impact of trade agreements on workers’ rights, wages and jobs; and the impact of the digital single market. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the growth of the sme sector is related to fair competition and access to financing. we need education reform and a good social dialogue in order to allow for smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises provide two-thirds of all private sector jobs. their support helps to tackle unemployment, which was around 23 million at eu level in 2015. 99% of european enterprises are smes. over the last 10 years, smes have created 85% of jobs in europe, once again underlining their importance to the european economy. the free movement of workers is a fundamental principle of the european union and we should not forget this. i support this report because there are about 2 million jobs that cannot be filled easily because of labour incompatibility in europe and the report underlines the importance of solving problems such as incompatibilities. to ensure the development of enterprises and strengthen their job-creating potential, european and national policies need to address skills (shortages, incompatibilities), regulatory uncertainty, administrative burdens, undeclared work and more.
in writing. ‒ europe’s economic structure is mainly based on small and medium-sized enterprises as sources of new jobs and represents a driving force of europe’s economy. i have voted for this report that calls on national and european policies to address the issues of skills shortages and mismatches.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this resolution because it offers an analysis of the constraints to the growth of the sme sector in the eu. especially smes in eastern and southern member states face harder conditions in terms of accessing finance, as the economy in these regions of the eu is under bigger strain and therefore less stable. these disadvantages should be taken into consideration in eu policy assessments. moreover, problems of competing with big corporations and suffering under heavy administrative systems remain concerning to the growth potential of smes – a sector that is vital for getting especially young europeans out of unemployment and into work.
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european economy. hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow smes to create sustainable quality jobs. the report focuses on a very important question, namely, on which conditions would need to be met in order to better harness the job creation potential of smes. there are key challenges that need to be taken into consideration when it comes to increasing the competitiveness of the eu’s productive sector, such as: the reduction of regulatory and administrative burden; tax incentives; and the role of trade unions and social partners. i therefore endorse the report due to its focus on the potential of smes, 21st century skills, dual education and ongoing training to overcome skills shortages, access to finance and support for smes (including eu funding and programmes), corporate social responsibility as well as specific support for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on how best to harness the job creation potential of smes. the rapporteur welcomes the approach, pointing out that despite the rules of the internal market, considerable differences still exist in the european union in the regulatory framework for smes, in particular as regards stability and the level of security. it also notes that due to macroeconomic instability and the absence of transparent and predictable regulation, smes in many countries that joined the eu after 2004, as well as in euro area countries in crisis, face unfavourable conditions for development. the report also stresses the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in their competitive position vis-à-vis large corporations.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the equal treatment directive has been successfully transposed into member states' legislation and implemented, which is a step forward in guaranteeing the rights of european citizens. in addition to the existing legislative provisions in this directive, member states may provide a higher level of protection and, at the same time, take positive discrimination measures in this area in their national legislation. i voted in favour of this report because i strongly support the need to combat discrimination in a proper way in all areas of life.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which assesses the application of the employment equality directive 15 years from its adoption and draws recommendations for further improvements. i believe the rapporteur produced a good draft with a balanced focus on the most important aspects such as discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. i welcome the call for work-life balance legislation (maternity, carers, paternity leave), the defending of ‘quality’ employment for people with disabilities, and the elimination of discriminatory language against migrants and refugees. despite very positive application of the directive in many member states, problems and challenges still exist such as funding, awareness, discrimination reporting, access to information and justice, and data collection. the social partners (trade unions and employers) and civil society, including equality bodies, must be involved in the effective application of equality in employment and occupation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, according to a study carried out by the european commission, it has been shown that there is a possible correlation between countries with a low level of case law and countries that have transposed the directive by taking only certain wording from it and introducing it into their national legislation. there are certain procedural difficulties affecting access to justice and effective enforcement which also stem from short legislative deadlines, lengthy procedures, high costs and shortcomings in the provision of legal aid, as well as language barriers, access for persons with disabilities and legal issues of legitimate interest. they consider that further efforts are needed to ensure the credibility and admissibility of evidence based on specific circumstances, as women and persons with disabilities continue to be victims of multiple, direct and indirect discrimination in the labour market, despite the application, in theory, of the principle of equal treatment in the member states. i strongly encourage and support the protection of and non-discrimination against persons with disabilities, in fact because, in theory, all member states' constitutions provide for non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the recommendations made by the rapporteur regarding the employment equality directive in order to improve the role of civil society and social partners, access to justice, lack of equality data and awareness.
in writing. ‒ in 2000 the employment equality directive was adopted which extended the protection against discrimination on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation that is provided under eu law. i have voted for this report that will address the challenges to the implementation of the employment equality directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this initiative because it underlines that 'discrimination on the grounds of disability' means any distinction, exclusion or restriction which prevents the recognition, respect and lawful exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report also calls on member states to strengthen public pension systems with a view to ensuring decent replacement of wages after retirement. at the same time, i believe it is very important that member states review their occupational insurance systems to combat discrimination against people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because it carefully assesses the application of the employment equality directive 15 years after its adoption and makes recommendations for improving the situation. the main issues addressed in this report include: lack of data on equality, awareness issues, the role of civil society and access to justice. the document underlines that despite the very positive implementation of the directive in many member states, issues and challenges such as funding, reporting of discrimination cases and access to information and justice still exist. i believe that social partners and civil society, including equality bodies, must be involved in the effective implementation of equality in employment.
in writing. ‒ major structural changes in world trade practices, generated by globalisation, have a strong negative impact on the regional or local economy. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to enable the union to provide support to workers made redundant as a result of these structural changes, thereby contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in recent years, restructuring has become a widespread phenomenon. i voted for increasing the co-financing rate from 50% to 60% to help the member states.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination, which are among the union's core values and enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy, must be guaranteed and promoted in the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf).
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund), a fundamental european instrument which provides direct support to workers who have lost their job as a consequence of changes in trade patterns and globalisation. we will keep fighting for a europe that ensures the improvement of living and working conditions and to promote a european social model consisting of strong social protection, quality public services and social dialogue. i welcome the fact that, through these changes, we will ensure that more attention is paid to the impact of trade policies and trade agreement in the european labour market and we clarify that the loss of jobs as a consequence of trade disputes which result in a serious shift in union trade in goods or services is fully within the scope of the egf. finally, i support the demand to the commission to present a proposal for a legal act on information and consultation of workers, anticipation and management of restructuring.
in writing. ‒ i fully support a european social model that offers strong social protection and dialogue. although there are many elements that should be improved, i believe the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 had great impact on the lives of hard-working citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in the world trade patterns due to globalisation. i have voted for this report that highlights the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report objectively analyses the situation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and how it was used in the period 2007-2014. at the same time, the report draws attention to problems that have arisen in the use of the egf by member states, such as poor information, the impossibility of pre-financing, and long approval periods. i believe that the proposals made in this report are beneficial for the future of the egf and will help to improve its use. in this context, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides direct support for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and changes in trade. this report takes a close look at the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. in this context, i believe that we should continue to work towards a europe that ensures the improvement of living conditions and the promotion of a european social model, with strong social protection, quality public services and social dialogue.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr neuser, for his work in a spirit of compromise, which has resulted in a balanced and ambitious text. this report is an important contribution from parliament which i hope will be taken into account in the communication we expect on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020. as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development (pcd), i am pleased to see that this concept has been highlighted in this report. the cpd has much to contribute, not only to the revision of the cotonou agreement but also to the implementation of the sustainable development goals. that is why i insisted that the report again calls for the establishment of permanent co-rapporteurs on the cpd within the acp-eu joint assembly. it is true that the acp-eu partnership has not achieved all its objectives and has disappointed in some respects, but i am convinced that we can improve these weak points while maintaining the current structure, which is a unique tool in the union's external relations. its legally binding nature contributes greatly to its effectiveness. in my view, the reform of the partnership must take account of our other foreign policy instruments, in particular the various road maps which will lead to the union's overall strategy. i regret that this strategy does not specifically mention the acp-eu partnership. if there is one point on which the reform of the cotonou agreement must concentrate all its efforts, it is on the strengthening of political dialogue. many african countries are currently facing serious political and electoral crises - the latest being gabon - and, in particular, the issue of presidential term limits: this is where political dialogue becomes relevant. it must be able to be used by both sides to prevent these crises and to act upstream.
madam president, it really is time to renew our relations with the african, caribbean and pacific states, not only because the current cotonou agreement expires in 2020 but also because pressing challenges need solutions that we can only achieve jointly with our partner countries. i am strongly in favour of european parliament support for a new cooperation structure keeping the unity of the european union states with their 79 partner countries, under one umbrella, while at the same time permitting closer regional cooperation. climate change is one of the issues that the eu and acp countries have to tackle as soon as possible. another is addressing poverty and the fragility of states, as the root causes of migration, in a sustainable way. this forum is the best place to listen to each other’s needs and find common solutions to global problems. last but not least, allow me warmly to congratulate the rapporteur, mr neuser.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 october 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on access to education for syrian children in lebanon (2016/2913 ((rsp)).
mr president, five years after the start of the conflict in syria, more than 250 000 children – approximately half of the nearly 500 000 school—age syrian children registered in lebanon – are out of school. this is totally unacceptable. the high number of refugee children out of school is an immediate crisis. education is a fundamental right under international law. all children in lebanon – including syrian refugees – have a legal right to free and compulsory primary education and access to secondary education without discrimination. education is also crucial for protecting children in situations of displacement, which can sometimes last for an entire childhood. despite these efforts, too many syrian children are still out of school. i believe lebanon needs more international financial support to respond to the educational needs of syrian refugees, including expanding and rehabilitating public schools, investing in quality education, fully including children with disabilities, training and hiring more teachers and subsidising school transportation.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the oral question with debate on the eu's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security in the world, addressed to the commission by mr enrique guerrero salom, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000099/2016 - b8-0717/2016) (2016/2705 ((rsp)).
mr president, i strongly support this report, which underlines the importance of the development of social safety nets. i would like to underline the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2, which aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, and achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems. currently 159 million children are stunted and 50 million are affected by wasting. malnutrition has a tremendous impact on their development and health and fuels the cycle of poverty. the level of investment remains inadequate. the commission nutrition action plan pledged to reduce stunting by 7 million children by 2025 and should honour its commitments, ensuring it addresses all forms of under-nutrition while also filling the huge current funding gap for nutrition—specific interventions.
in writing. we have been talking about malnutrition and hunger for decades, but despite the development aid allocated to sub-saharan countries, malnutrition and hunger still exist. unfortunately, even though the commission's action plan on nutrition has committed to reducing stunting in children by 7 million by 2025, out of a total commitment of 3.5 billion, only 400 million is allocated to nutrition-specific measures. in 2012, the world health assembly endorsed a set of six global nutrition targets for 2025, including a target to reduce stunting in children under five by 40%. however, investment in nutrition is still insufficient. the european commission should increase aid for nutrition and support the development of the agricultural sector in countries facing hunger.
mr president, illegal logging and deforestation is a huge problem in several eu member states. here again, we are witnessing the well-known phenomenon that while we have legislation to deal with the issue, the reality of everyday life is that corrupt systems have been built to continue uncontrolled logging on an industrial scale. entire forests are being destroyed, and in many cases the governmental authorities are turning a blind eye, leaving local forest owners helpless. it is an open secret that logging companies buy, process and sell illegally harvested timber with no regard for environmental or other considerations. breaking the law seems to have no consequences, and citizens expect the law to apply to everyone, even to companies that process millions of cubic meters of timber and provide hundreds of jobs.
in writing. forests cover significant areas of the planet and are important ecosystems both for humans and for the environment. in order to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy for forests, i believe that the strategy for forests and the forestry sector needs to be strengthened by: combating deforestation and forest degradation, promoting sustainable forest management as a means of protecting biodiversity, combating desertification and responding to climate change, while ensuring that forest ecosystems provide goods and services, contributing to sustainable development and poverty eradication. strong commitment, coherence and political support from all parties involved in the flegt action plan is needed to ensure that development and climate change policies place forests and the forestry sector at the heart of the green economy and highlight the benefits that forests can provide in a sustainable way, while ensuring their protection and combating illegal deforestation.
mr president, cohesion policy is a mechanism designed at european union level to remove social disparities between member states so that every european citizen feels at home, whether he is in eastern or western europe. in europe today, the economic crisis, the ineffective management of the migrant crisis have contributed to the rise of populism with serious effects on the future of cohesion policy. many voices, especially from the western states, are coming to question the effectiveness of this policy, considering that there are no clear ways of expressing the benefits that citizens of the net donor states would also benefit from these investments. i would point out, however, that the countries which are net donors today have over time benefited from substantial financial resources from the european union. i would also point out that this money is returning to these countries to a large extent, because almost all the investments made in the eastern countries are made by firms with equipment or materials coming from western europe.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of members of the european parliament to the fact that in romania the state continues to persecute the use of community symbols. the last time the us ambassador in bucharest experienced this was when a photo of him holding a szekler flag in the company of local government leaders appeared in the media. in the romanian media, this gesture was enough to cause a scandal, even the ministry of foreign affairs protested against the gesture in a statement, stressing the importance of knowing the existing sensitivities. of course, not all community symbols cause such a stir in romania, and many geographical areas have their own flags that you are free to use. the only flag the romanian authorities object to is that of szeklerland, which is inhabited mostly by hungarians. and that is discrimination, even when we consider all the sensitivities that exist. in fact, in romania, the court ruled that the name szeklerland cannot be used as a tourist destination, that is, it cannot be used to describe a region by the name that its inhabitants have used for centuries. please decide whether this phenomenon offends european sensibilities.
mr president, the european union is and remains indispensable for all of us. this building has a future to win for its citizens, and i believe it will. unfortunately, however, politicians like nigel farage, viktor orban, marine le pen and so on and so forth also need the european union to throw any national problem onto the backs of others. what they don't say is that the european union exists by the will of the member states. that the european parliament is directly elected by the citizens and that, yes, the european commission is not a temple of technocrats but an eminently political institution, formed by decisions taken together by the same member states. if the european union has a face, it is not a hidden one, as some suggest. the european union is the face of all the member states, soon reduced, with the support of populism and demagogy, to twenty-seven. but responsible for everything it does and for how the european union works. this truth must be communicated to the people as often as possible.
if i am allowed a small comment on this, i would say that the full equality of all people before the law does exclude, from the beginning, minimum standards. all of them should enjoy the same standards. but forgive me – i now give the floor to ms ferrara.
mr president, i have been dealing with european criminal law for more than 15 years, so let me make a few comments. i am not in favour of the harmonisation of criminal law at european level for its own sake, but this is a different story and has been raised several times here. when we, 15 years ago, and i remember being in the czech parliament at the time, enforced the european arrest warrant, we said that further harmonisation of criminal procedural law must follow in order for the arrest warrant to work. for the audience, this means that citizens of the european union are being extradited from their home country to another country in the european union for criminal prosecution. and that's why we need a minimum standard of criminal justice. that is why, as i said, i am not in favour of harmonisation for its own sake, but here is a clear reason: to enable citizens who are extradited to another country of the european union for criminal prosecution to be guaranteed criminal procedural rights. and that certainly includes the right to free legal aid.
mr president, commissioner, the rights of the defence, the procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings are basic, as you have said. although we have regulations regarding the right to translation, for example, i personally received many petitions informing me that citizens who were detained did not have the right to translation. the right to a fair trial is a citizen's right that should not be negotiated and should not take into account the place where the citizen is tried, his nationality, gender or age. in my view, a directive is needed to harmonise the rights in the european union in this area. the outcome of the trial shall not depend on the financial capacity of the person being tried. we must be honest, commissioner, and say that there are people who cannot defend themselves because of lack of financial resources. fair trials for all must be the aim of this harmonisation. i think the wording of article 4 of the commission's proposal is inappropriate because it leaves a loophole for not applying free legal aid and i quote 'when this is in the interest of the act of justice'. i think it should be in the public interest.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, october 4, 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by marietje schaake, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (com (2014) 0001 c70014/2014 2014/0005cod)) (a70267/2015).
thank you very much, but combinations of innocent medicines could also be lethal under certain circumstances.
madam president, capital punishment, torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment are incompatible with the principles and values governing the european union. the fact that some substances or products in the european union may be used for the execution of human beings by lethal injection is a reality and further measures are necessary to prevent human rights violations in this regard. in this context, it is important to ensure an appropriate mix of legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures of the european union to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods intended for torture, and to effectively control those with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. major emphasis and increased efforts should be directed towards export controls, but also towards the development of a specific list of goods to be controlled. however, efforts cannot be limited to eradicating torture by reducing the availability of equipment with which it can be abused, but also by promoting appropriate controls beyond its borders. in continuing these efforts, the european union should also seek to control other services that may contribute to the spread of products that can be used for torture or capital punishment, such as financial services, but especially marketing services. on the other hand, as regards technical assistance providers, they should be prohibited from providing instruction, advice, training or imparting knowledge or practical techniques which could assist in the commission of enforcement. the commission should also be able to monitor the implementation of the commitments of the member states, including their reporting and information exchange obligations, through a secure and encrypted system.
the question is "blue cardboard". i would like to ask you, mr president, how you understand this emergency procedure whereby the customs authorities can, for example, confiscate products of torture. i didn't understand how it worked.
madam president, commissioner, as a member of the imco commission, i am interested in all trade-related regulations in the internal market, and therefore this report. but we don't have to develop a free market at any cost, we are talking about a digital europe, online commerce, and i think it is very important to see how we can monitor the market in this segment. it is good that the ban on products that are likely to be used for torture is introduced. to condemn torture, one must act without hesitation. the restrictions in this area, set out in this report, actually support the fight against capital punishment and torture. it is good that we have a report which shows that support for the development of free trade does not prevent us from intervening when it comes to dangerous products. but i think, commissioner, that we need to review the list of these dangerous products periodically because inventiveness and innovation work in the field of these products too. i support this report and will vote for it and congratulate the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who worked on it.
madam gomes, we will take note of your comments even though this was not a point of order.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, is one of the most important achievements of our time. today, more than ever, we can see clearly the harmful effect that man has on nature. unless the world's governments change their approach, the scenario that is unfolding is one of drought, fire, and tropical storms. to prevent all of these natural disasters, the united nations has set a goal of limiting global warming to no more than 2 degrees celsius by 2100. the conclusion of the paris agreement and its signature in new york on 22 april 2016 marks a significant moment as the union and its member states have decided to act jointly, leaving the commission and the council to sign on their behalf. the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement constitutes the necessary basis for the conclusion of the paris agreement by the eu and its member states, and i therefore support the recommendation of my colleague, giovanni la via, as it underlines the leadership of the union and its member states and their continued efforts to combat climate change internationally.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is an ambitious agreement, legally binding, but also a benchmark for combating climate change and multilateralism. global warming directly affects every eu citizen. the transition to clean energy is necessary and resources must no longer be based solely on fossil fuels. the agreement was signed by 187 countries, which cumulatively cover about 98% of total emissions, making climate change a global effort. i voted for the formal entry into force of the paris agreement, but also for joint and effective cooperation between member states to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a historically significant landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism. it represents an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement. the adoption of the agreement and the cumulative announcements by the end of cop 21 of intended nationally determined contributions (indcs) by 187 parties marked a decisive turning point towards comprehensive and collective global action, and, when implemented, will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate resilient, climate neutral global economy. this global action aims to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change. i believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the unfccc will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continuing efforts to address climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ the eu ratification of the paris agreement contributes to the conclusion of the 55% threshold needed in order for the agreement to enter into force. by voting in favour of this recommendation, i gave full consent for the urgent ratification and implementation of the paris agreement in europe. a historic vote that marks the first global climate deal, which is legally binding and will come into force in november 2016 – just in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakesh.
in writing. ‒ we have reached a world limit in the climate change problem. i have voted for this recommendation, which will bring about important measures in achieving the eu’s objective for the global climate change issue.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 paris agreement is the first multilateral climate change agreement covering almost all global emissions. the agreement is a success for the whole world and a confirmation of the eu's orientation towards a low-carbon economy. the energy union project provides a broader framework within which the eu can provide an appropriate enabling environment for the energy transition. according to the international energy agency, full implementation of climate plans will lead to usd 13,5 trillion in investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies between 2015 and 2030, with an annual average of usd 840 billion. in addition, the future energy union research, innovation and competitiveness strategy will take advantage of synergies between the energy sector, the transport sector, the circular economy, as well as industrial and digital innovation. this should lead to increased competitiveness of current and future european low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report which endorses this historic agreement signed in paris by 187 parties and which aims to protect the habitat in which we live, leaving it as pleasant as possible for future generations. the agreement itself is a clear message to investors in industry, business, civil society and policy makers, and reiterates in a broad consensus that the global clean energy transition is crucial at this time and will be achieved by phasing out fossil fuels. the report also calls for the establishment of a strengthened framework for transparency and accountability and for the submission by all stakeholders of greenhouse gas inventories and the information needed to track their progress. another strength of this report is the dynamic mechanism it envisages for the preparation of this balance sheet, as well as the measures needed to increase the extremely ambitious targets in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the 17 november earthquake in the ionian islands in greece, the european parliament proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity funds, which are needed to provide financial assistance following the disaster. the earthquake had a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale, and the damage was mainly material, namely 120 damaged homes, the loss of two lives, and the injury of 8 people. the affected regions are among the least developed regions, so the emergency and rehabilitation costs are around eur 52 million, of which over eur 38 million is spent on transport and over eur 7 million on the protection of cultural heritage. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a great need for eu solidarity funds for rehabilitation measures, given that we are dealing with a number of less developed regions and the damage is significant.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund enables the european union to provide financial support to a member state, an acceding country or a region in the event of a major natural disaster. between 26 january and 3 february 2014, kefalonia was hit by a strong earthquake, measuring 5.8 on the richter scale, followed by dozens of strong aftershocks in the northeast of the island; the quake caused several casualties and left 3,000 people homeless. numerous homes were badly damaged, and people were forced to sleep for several nights in tents or on military ships. the application from greece was received on 28 march 2014 and qualifies for a financial contribution from the fund in accordance with article 4 of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. as earthquakes are of natural origin, they fall within the main scope of the solidarity fund. in solidarity with the affected regions of greece, i support the swift mobilisation of the commission proposal for a decision contained in that report.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by an earthquake measuring 6.1 on the richter scale. two people lost their lives, eight were injured, and 120 homes were damaged. significant damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was also reported. the material damage amounts to over 2,5% of regional gdp, thus classifying this event as a regional disaster. i voted in favour of financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund for the greek people, who have been badly affected by this earthquake. solidarity is at the heart of the eu's foundation, and i believe that only together can we overcome the crises we face within the union.
in writing. ‒ last november, greece was badly hit by the earthquake in the ionian islands. given that the eu's main objective with regard to the solidarity fund is to express its solidarity with the population of regions affected by natural disasters through a rapid and effective response, i fully support the rapporteur's position recommending the swift approval of the commission's proposal for a decision in solidarity with the affected regions of greece.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a decision of the european parliament and of the council to mobilise the european solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015. i support a swift approval of the commission proposal to mobilise eur 1 651 834, in a sign of solidarity with the greek regions affected by the earthquake of 2015.
in writing. ‒ a decision of parliament and the council to mobilise the european solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015 is included in this report. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i have found greece to be in high need of financial support due to the ‘regional disaster’ which took place in the ionian islands on 17 november 2015.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, an earthquake that measured 6.1 on the richter scale hit the ionian islands region, in particular lefkada, northern parts of ithaki and kefalonia. two people lost their lives, eight were wounded and 120 houses were damaged. the greek authorities reported extensive damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites, with some of the most important tourist beaches destroyed on lefkada. this report contains a decision of the european parliament and of the council to mobilize the european solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by natural disasters. budg recommends a swift approval of the commission proposal to mobilize eur 1651 834. the aid will help restore infrastructure, reimburse the cost of emergency measures and cover some of the clean-up operations. i support this report, as i believe that greece is eligible to receive the european solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ under the eu regulation, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices, in this case workers made redundant by microsoft and 8 other suppliers and downstream producers of this company in finland. global trade practices resulting from the process of globalisation have led to a considerable decline in employment in the ict sector, the effect of which is felt most strongly in finland, where the sector is crucial to the economy. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is very important that finland should receive this support for the workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide support for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade. the application submitted by finland to the commission on 11 march 2016 meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. the decline in popularity of microsoft's platform led to a sharp decline in its market share, which was already quite small. this was also the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft finland is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 5 364 000, representing 60% of the total costs of eur 8 940 000, so the worrying situation created by the unemployment of highly skilled and educated people who would normally have had a good chance of finding a job will be remedied as soon as possible. i support that report and stress that the union must be a major support for the restoration of a balance in the finnish economic market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. according to the finnish authorities, the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft is the declining market share of the company's mobile phones. microsoft has laid off 1,441 of its 2,161 employees. i voted in favour of allocating eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to guidance, vocational training, wage subsidies and other measures to help staff made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 2161 redundancies of the enterprise microsoft (microsoft mobile oy) in finland, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 62 (computer programming, consultancy and related activities) during the reference period from 11 september 2015 to 11 january 2016. the egaf funding of eur 5 364 000, which i support, will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 1441 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies, with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund’s main role is to provide assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this report includes a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in finland, mainly in the regions helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and länsi-suomi. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when a company goes bankrupt or moves outside europe. 2 161 workers at microsoft (finland) and 1 556 at ericson (sweden) lost their income. the finnish government has blamed microsoft for not keeping its commitments to make finland a hub and keep research jobs. promises broken or not, companies have suffered as a result of globalization. people prefer phones with newer operating systems. the fund would pay finland 5.3 out of €8.9 million and sweden 3.9 out of €6.5 million. the following services are to be provided to workers: guidance and other preparatory measures, employment services, vocational training, wage subsidies, subsidies for setting up businesses. this money efficiently used can really help.
in writing. ‒ on 29 july 2016, finland’s proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf was adopted by the commission in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at microsoft. i voted for this report that will mobilise a total amount of eur 1 365 000 from the egf for finland that will help 1 441 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ this report is about approving the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund in finland, mainly in the regions helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and länsi-suomi. the european globalization adjustment fund is a legislative and budgetary instrument to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or of the global financial and economic crisis and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the application relates to 2161 redundancies in microsoft in finland, operating in the economic sector during the period from 11 september 2015 to 11 january 2016. the egaf funding of eur 5 364 000 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 1441 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies, with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i support this report as i believe that the 2161 redundancies of microsoft are eligible to receive aid.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices, and in this case we are talking about workers made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, which manufactures computers for electronic and optical products in sweden. the global trade practices resulting from the process of globalisation have led to an outsourcing of these activities to asia, where the fastest growing markets are located and where equivalent quality can be ensured with much lower costs in the production of telecommunications equipment. of the workers made redundant, 70% are men and 30% are women with an average age of 30 to 60 years. i voted in favour of this report, considering it very important that sweden should receive this support for the workers made redundant. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the aid.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. due to the decline in sales, ericsson laid off 918 workers in sweden. i voted to direct eur 3 957 918 from the budget of the globalisation adjustment fund to the swedish authorities to help these european citizens reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) funding of eur 3 957 918 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 918 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in the nuts level 2 regions of stockholm (se11), östra mellansverige (se12), sydsverige (se22) and västsverige (se23), with the aim of providing assistance in integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund’s main role is to provide assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the report includes a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in sweden, mainly in the regions of stockholm and östra mellansverige. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ from nokia cluj to sidex-mittal steel in galati, romania has also been hit by massive redundancies, as a consequence of either the international economic crisis or irresponsible management of national or multinational companies. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers to overcome such crises by funding retraining programmes. finland is one of the countries that has requested access to this fund. more than 2,000 microsoft workers have been laid off as a result of the decline in market demand for the company's phones. the money could help 1,441 workers reorient themselves in the labour market. the vocational retraining programmes would cost around eur 9 million, of which just over eur 5 million should be covered by the egf. on the other hand, faced with a similar situation, sweden has also requested access to this fund. in the scandinavian country, ericsson laid off more than 1 500 workers. the vocational rehabilitation measures envisaged by sweden involve an expenditure of over eur 6 million, of which almost eur 4 million is to be paid by the egf. i strongly support measures that lead to the creation of new jobs and the adaptation of industries to current requirements.
in writing. ‒ on 5 september 2016, sweden’s proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf was adopted by the commission in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson. i voted for this report that will mobilise a total amount of eur 3 957 918 from the egf for sweden and that will help 918 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ this report is about approving the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in sweden, mainly in the regions of stockholm and östra mellansverige. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a legislative and budgetary instrument to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or of the global financial and economic crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the application relates to 1 556 redundancies at the enterprise telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson in sweden operating in the economic sector, during the period 11 september 2015 to 11 january 2016. the egf funding of eur 3 957 918 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 918 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in the nuts level 2 regions of stockholm (se11), östra mellansverige (se12), sydsverige (se22) and västsverige (se23), with the aim of providing assistance in integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i support this report as i believe that the 1 556 redundancies at ericsson are eligible to receive aid.
in writing. ‒ the proposed proceedings are clearly unrelated to giorgos grammatikakis’s status as a member of the european parliament, given that they relate to his former position as rector of the senate of the university of crete. i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as requested by giorgos grammatikakis himself in order to put an end to this long judicial process.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the committee on legal affairs (juri).
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on judicial assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings, the implementation of which requires member states to trust each other's criminal justice systems, including the way in which the rights of suspects or accused persons are safeguarded. in practice, however, national practices differ and there are large differences between member states as regards the quality of legal aid provided, depending in particular on the fees paid to lawyers for legal aid. in cases where fees are too low, lawyers will not devote sufficient time and effort to providing high-quality free legal aid. i voted in favour of the report, considering that there should be a single judicial policy in all the member states and that this differentiation between the states and the approach to legal aid should be one and the same, regardless of the fees received by lawyers.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive lays down common minimum rules on the right to legal aid of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings when they are deprived of liberty and of persons subject to european arrest warrant proceedings. the objective of this directive is to ensure that such persons have access to legal aid in order to be able to effectively exercise their right of access to a lawyer as provided for in the directive on access to a lawyer. i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament because i believe that this directive will contribute to mutual trust between member states, which will lead to better european cooperation in criminal matters. in the early stages of the proceedings, suspects or accused persons are particularly vulnerable and access to a lawyer is essential to protect their rights to a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ on 27 november 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions, but national practices differ. for those who lack the necessary financial resources, free legal aid is the only solution to facilitate access to a lawyer. i voted for a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the right to a fair trial, including through the provision of free legal assistance, is a step towards fair and effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which calls for the scope of the directive to be widened to cover all cases of legal aid, and not just those of ‘provisional’ legal aid, as per the commission proposal. i believe persons subject to a european arrest warrant should have the right to legal aid for a lawyer both in the member state which issues the arrest warrant and in the member state which executes the arrest warrant. at a time when the focus seems to be on creating as many new criminal law instruments as possible to tackle terrorism and other forms of criminality, it is important to remember that the bedrock of a union based on the rule of law is the collection of procedural, fundamental and defence rights guaranteed to those who are accused or suspected by our criminal justice systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a welcome step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. however, this level represents the limit of the right to free provisional legal aid offered to suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of liberty and of the right to free provisional legal aid for wanted persons subject to proceedings related to the european arrest warrant. it is important that suspects, accused persons or requested persons benefit from legal certainty as regards eligibility criteria. the right of defence or the right to translation should not depend on the country in which the proceedings are taking place, or on the nationality, gender or social class of the person. the eligibility criteria mentioned in the commission recommendation provide some clarification for the time being, but do not amount to full harmonisation. equity for citizens, regardless of the cost, must be balanced so that the citizens' rights of people in such situations are balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i am in favour of legal aid to suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. money should not be a barrier to access justice. legal aid is an expression of the principle of subsidiarity in the legal field. i agree that the field of application of the directive should also be extended outside of those who are subject to a european arrest warrant. providing legal aid does not necessarily mean providing financial resources. in this regard, the commission should communicate with member states regarding the work of pro bono legal assistance offered to people undergoing criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report because it has for priority the implementation of a mechanism which shall provide a decent level of legal aid within the member states. therefore, this will help ensure a legal mechanism based on mutual trust in each other’s justice systems between the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report adopted today because the right to access to a lawyer is a fundamental right, which ensures the conditions for a fair trial. in this respect, today's report refers to the new directive which will include both the right to free provisional legal aid and the right to free ordinary legal aid in all circumstances. i am in favour of this report because it includes a provision which will also be found in the directive and which will include the possibility of replacing the lawyer of the defence if, for good reasons, the suspect or accused person or the requested person has completely lost confidence in him.
in writing. ‒ judicial cooperation is one of the chapters where member states have much work to do to harmonise regulations and practices. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions to be respected through mutual trust in the criminal justice systems of the member states. this principle also covers provisional judicial assistance for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and judicial assistance in european arrest warrant proceedings. in practice, national systems differ, which affects the respect of the right to free legal advice and assistance, especially for those who lack the necessary financial resources. the commission's proposal to regulate this area is therefore an important step, but not enough, towards ensuring a minimum level in all member states. it is limited to suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who are deprived of their liberty and to wanted persons who are the subject of the european arrest warrant. the difference between lawyers' fees in the various member states, the quality of legal services provided by the office and the lack of regulation of the preference of the suspect or accused person are subjects to be covered by the commission directive. i support the adoption of this report.
madam president, this report finally outlaws the thriving business of trading in products that can be used for executions, torture, degrading treatment, and those who wish to engage in such activities will finally be able to answer to the law. for example, the regulation prohibits the use of single-use goods for torture or execution, and if it is a multi-functional goods, then there is an authorisation system precisely so that they cannot be used for execution or torture. and drugs need to be controlled precisely so that they can't be used for lethal injections -- that's the trade in these drugs. very briefly, this report will lead to the elimination of the death penalty and torture worldwide. i hope so.
in writing. ‒ eu export controls are foreign trade policy instruments serving a multitude of wider policy objectives. the regulation against torture (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of assets and activities used or likely to be used fraudulently to impose the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this regulation contributes to the eu's long-standing policy of abolishing the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture. it contributes to the achievement of the objectives by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. i spoke in favour of this report, considering that the review of eu controls on trade in instruments of torture is extremely important in the current european context.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the death penalty has been abolished in its entirety, except in belarus, which has applied it as a sentence even this year. the retention of the death penalty is also one of the reasons why belarus is the only european country that is not a member of the council of europe. moreover, the abolition of the death penalty is a precondition for eu membership, as it is considered a cruel and inhumane practice. the european union challenges the death penalty, regardless of its motivation, whether it is one of deterrence of crime or punishment of war crimes (the last eu member state, latvia, abolishing the death penalty for all types of crime in 2012). in this context, the eu is continuing its long-standing policy of eliminating the death penalty in the world by regulating the prohibition of trade in 'single-use' goods and related technical assistance intended for torture and execution and a licensing system for 'multi-purpose' goods that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection. furthermore, i support this report as the eu needs to update the checklists regularly to include all relevant devices or technologies that appear on the market.
in writing. ‒ the torture regulation is the only instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of assets and activities fraudulently used to impose the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. adequate synchronisation between eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade or use of goods intended for torture is important. ensuring compliance with controls by national authorities is a necessity when dealing with increasingly complex foreign trade transactions. i voted for a community approach to maintaining a level playing field by means of a system of regular reporting and review, consistent with export control regimes.
in writing. ‒ this is a much welcome example of the eu setting a global standard in eradicating torture. the updated rules will help eu authorities to react more quickly to new emerging trends in torture and inhumane treatment, namely by regulating their sale on line, etc. in recent years we have seen how a change in eu practices has led to the demise of the death penalty in many partner countries such as the us. this will be set to continue when the regulation comes into force. i welcome in particular the inclusion of a ‘catch-all clause’ in the ep position. with the new ‘urgency procedure’, customs authorities will be able to act just as fast in detaining torture goods. moreover, there will be an outright ban on displaying and selling torture goods at trade fairs, updated rules on banning advertising to include online sales of torture goods, and the transit of the prohibited products will be outlawed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe it is essential to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. an important step is to strengthen the provisions on the transfer of goods, transit, technical assistance and commercial marketing, with a view to prohibiting trade in goods intended for torture and execution or 'multifunctional goods' that could be misused for torture and execution by lethal injection. increased efforts are needed at eu level and trade instruments are an element of a comprehensive approach to eradicating torture by prohibiting the transfer of elements that could lead to the facilitation or commission of executions, torture and other ill-treatment. it is also essential to ensure consistency of the european union's export controls on military goods, firearms and goods which could be used for torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment, without requiring duplication of controls. the list of prohibited products needs to be revised. i voted for this report because i believe that the economic and commercial development of the internal market must not facilitate torture through products created and marketed online or offline.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strengthening the 2005 regulation banning trade in items that could be used for torture or executions in third countries, in order to address loopholes identified by civil society and make this ambitious piece of legislation (the first of its kind worldwide) even more effective. i welcome in particular the fact that the european parliament’s views on brokering and technical assistance, including advertising and promotion, transit through the union’s territory of such goods, and the review clause, have been included in the final version of the compromise agreed with the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that calls for human rights protection and for the eu’s policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide or any other type of human torture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, supporting the concern that the trade with certain goods could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. prohibiting such services is essential to protect public morals and to respect the principles of human dignity which underpin european values, as embodied in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. furthermore, it is necessary to prohibit brokers in the union from providing brokering services in relation to goods whose export and import are prohibited as such goods have no practical use other than for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i am also in agreement with the prohibition of commercial marketing and promotion of any transit of goods listed in annex ii, regardless of the origin of such goods, unless such goods will be used for the exclusive purpose of public display in a museum, taking into consideration their historic significance.
in writing. ‒ the european union exports a wide range of goods worldwide. these include a number of products that can be used as instruments of torture and execution, for example by lethal injection. to this end, eu-wide control is required to avoid exported products being used in ways that contravene the 2005 european regulation against torture or for the death penalty, which the eu wants to be abolished worldwide. this is not possible at present due to the absence of multilateral export control regimes for these exports, in particular for military goods, dual-use goods, firearms, medical products. one solution could be to create a union general export authorisation for countries that have made commitments in accordance with protocol no 13 to the european convention on human rights or the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights. it would contain specific product lists, providing greater clarity for exporters, and a series of controls, checks, sanctions, guidance and information from national authorities. the european parliament should be duly involved in this process. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and china, a strategic agreement covering expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. china is increasingly relevant as a country of origin, destination and transit in the fight against organised crime, such as organised forms of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as activities related to cybercrime and money laundering. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with china would support and intensify the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ information has always been a powerful and valuable resource, and information that helps prevent crime, combat organised crime or any other type of crime that may go unnoticed because of a lack of communication between two state entities is particularly valuable. therefore, the conclusion of international cooperation agreements by the union with third countries or international organisations, naturally after consulting the european parliament, which expresses the clear need for europol to cooperate in this case with china, helps to combat organised crime and can contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. i support the report on the china-europol strategic cooperation agreement because it not only sets up an operational mechanism with china, a country that is increasingly representative as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, but it also excludes the exchange of personal data from the outset.
in writing. ‒ recent reports show a significant improvement in the fight against crime and organised crime in china, where several very dangerous criminal groups operate. in this regard, cooperation between europol and the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china is a necessity. this agreement shall refer to the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. such a strategic agreement shall exclude the exchange of personal data. we voted for this cooperation in the fight against organized crime, a global phenomenon, which directly affects each of us.
in writing. ‒ parliament is being consulted on whether to give our consent to the strategic agreement between europol and the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china. strategic agreements involve the exchange of information, but not personal data. i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is consulted on whether to give consent to the strategic agreement between europol and the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china. it is important to specify that the strategic agreements involve the exchange of information, but not personal data.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will improve cooperation between europol and china in fighting against any illegal activities which may include organised crime and illegal immigration. one relevant mention is that any exchange of personal data within this europol-china agreement is strictly forbidden by this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china and europol because this agreement meets the objective of supporting and strengthening action of the eu member states and third states pursuant to the list determined by decision 2009/935/jha. i strongly believe that the strategic agreements should involve the exchange of information, but excluding personal data, and can be concluded by europol only after approval by the council. this addresses the urgency and flexibility of the steps needed to be taken by europol to prevent and combat serious forms of crime, and the oversight comes through approval required by the council after consultation with the management board of europol. the operational agreements involve the exchange of information including personal data, but i approve the necessity of such exchanges in the light of the stringent oversight that requires not only the council’s approval, via the management board, but also the opinion of the joint supervisory body of europol as it concerns the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between the european union and the people's republic of china has reached an impressive level in all areas in recent years. in addition to economic cooperation, another important area of strategic cooperation is public policy. this is an area of particular interest in the context of the increasing terrorist threats to contemporary society. in relation to china, an important component of cooperation is the fight against organised crime in the form of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and drugs, counterfeiting of the euro, infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, cyber attacks and money laundering. the current cooperation agreement excludes the exchange of personal data and relates in particular to exchanges of general situation reports, strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation and crime prevention procedures, training activities and certain criminal investigations. the adoption of this agreement completes the series of cooperation initiatives between europol and other structures of the main international actors, with the aim of making the prevention and fight against cross-border crime more effective. it is a necessary measure, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
madam president, i have supported this report because it is clear that the cotonou agreement will expire in 2020 and it will be necessary to discuss how we will continue or continue our trade relations with africa, the caribbean and the pacific. and this report describes options that i agree with in principle. i think that in the future it would be appropriate to consider certain economic partnership agreements so that the european market is not only open to the economies of our partners, but that there is a kind of reciprocity, a mutual opening of markets. i am also aware of the need to support the economies of african, caribbean and pacific states. especially in the context of today's great migration wave, it is necessary to support african countries where poverty is so great that it forces the inhabitants to head to europe or to richer parts of the world.
madam president, we voted today to establish the framework for a new agreement with the countries of africa, the pacific and the caribbean by 2020. i certainly voted for this report and i will explain why, but i would also like to express my disappointment that the trade agreement with the united states, which brought a flourishing trade for all of europe and all small and mediumsized businesses, was denounced by three socialist ministers. returning to the africa, pacific and caribbean agreement: it's very important to have a political dialogue with the countries in this region and it's very important to invest in their development, and here the private sector has a vital role because they have to make these investments and we have to make there sustainable development, development that goes into the future and not just for a year or two, especially in this context where we have a migration crisis, we are in the midst of a migration crisis and the main solution is to eradicate poverty and develop those countries so that people have jobs, stay at home, develop the economy in those countries and also, of course, condition the respect of human rights, respect for democracy, because only independent people can build healthy and free societies.
in writing. ‒ over 80% of the least developed countries (ldcs) are from acp regions, which gives particular importance to the eu-acp partnership (the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states). since the signing of the cotonou agreement, there have been changes in the political and economic landscape of the acp group and within the european union, and the future of acp-eu relations should be based on a new reflection on the potential and future obstacles to cooperation between the two entities. the results with regard to the objectives of poverty eradication and integration of the acp countries into the world economy have so far been unconvincing, given that half of the acp member states are still among the least developed countries (ldcs) and that the acp member states together account for less than 5% of world trade and about 2% of world gdp. i voted in favour of this report, firmly believing that a new agreement, with the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) at its core, and the creation of robust monitoring mechanisms, is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement is the framework for the eu's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. it was adopted in 2000 for a period of 20 years and includes a political dimension, economic and trade cooperation and development cooperation. the main objectives of the cotonou agreement are the reduction and eradication of poverty and the progressive integration of acp countries into the world economy, while respecting the objectives of sustainable development. over the past two decades, the eu and the acp group of states have developed and their relations have undergone major developments. in a rapidly changing and increasingly multipolar world, the future of acp-eu relations depends on a new framework that is to apply universally to all countries, with a profound impact and change in development prospects. all means of implementation and all actors involved will be mobilised. i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the ep because i want to underline the economic and political importance of asia which will certainly continue to grow, to which will be added the emergence of other economic powers in africa and latin america.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european community, on the other, is based on development, political, economic and trade cooperation. the general objective of the cotonou agreement is the eradication of poverty. over 80% of the least developed countries come from these regions. the private sector is at the heart of sustainable development. sustainable development could provide an environment of international security. i voted for continued cooperation between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states to address more effectively today's global challenges, such as climate change, food security, migratory flows, terrorism, extremism or international crime.
in writing. ‒ it is time to renew the relations with the african, caribbean and pacific states. not only because the current cotonou agreement expires in 2020, but also because pressing challenges need solutions that we can only achieve commonly with our partner countries. i am strongly in favour of the support in the ep for a new structure of the cooperation that keeps the unity of eu states with its 79 partner countries under one umbrella, and allows at the same time closer regional cooperation. climate change is one of the issues that the eu and acp countries have to tackle, another is to address poverty and fragility of states, as the root causes of migration, in a sustainable way. the forum is best placed to listen to each other’s needs and find common solutions to global problems.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the next agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) should be placed at the centre of a new agreement. we need strong monitoring mechanisms to ensure that implementation of the agreement promotes the sdgs.
in writing. the cotonou agreement is a partnership signed by the member states and the acp states with the main objective being to reduce poverty as consistently as possible. moreover, the agreement is contributing to the process of promoting the economy, as well as the cultural and social development of the acp states. i have voted for this report because of its importance in connecting not only people, but also countries and their parliaments from both acp and eu over the last 40 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union's external policy in relation to the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific must be pursued, especially in the current political and economic context, and must have as its focal point the integration and sustainable development of these third countries through the trade relations they establish with european states. equally, eu-acp cooperation is very important as it will create more effective working tools in the fight against terrorism and international crime. last but not least, i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that long-term cooperation between the european union and the acp countries can bring about greater openness to democracy and the strengthening of human rights in these countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries have been consistently at a very good level over the past decades. the eu is the main source of development aid for these countries, which gives it a very important role in supporting their positive development. however, their position is still quite difficult, which requires a new agreement that puts the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) at the forefront. this new agreement should include a mechanism for periodic monitoring, accountability and peer review, knowledge-based policy planning, measures to eradicate poverty and inequality, policy coherence for development (cpd), protection of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, appropriate action in cases of serious corruption, political dialogue, strengthening of local and regional authorities, support for minorities, youth and women, and the private sector of the economy. to this end, it is envisaged to set up new cooperation institutions, in addition to the acp-eu council, such as the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa), the jpa bureau, the jpa commission. they will better manage funding through the various european instruments involved and through economic partnership agreements (epas). i support this report.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
blue-card question. – mr president, dear colleagues, you know that i appreciate you very much, but do you not think that, before the disbursement of loans that is going to take place in october, the greek government, even though it probably does not have the necessary time, should nevertheless reach certain outcomes, if only in the fields of privatisation, pensions, and banking governance and in the energy sector?
member of the commission. madam president, it was an important debate with many speeches, and a lot of passion too. i will try to engage in an exercise which is perhaps a little more reasonable because what i have heard is a whole series of reflections, extremely accurate and sharp remarks, but also, sometimes, the projection of a political debate which we can have - and it is legitimate - on this subject. for me, the question is not whether to join the euro, leave it or stay in it. i am the commissioner responsible for economic and financial affairs and naturally i consider the euro to be a monetary and political construct with a very important economic basis. that is what the commission and i are trying to do. personally, the question i ask myself - and i imagine others might be different - is not whether or not i have sympathy for mr tsipras' government. some have it, some don't, some have it and some don't. no, i want to put myself in the position of our action and the commission's assessment, as well as that of the eurogroup, which, as you know, is by definition a very pluralistic body. of course, not everything has been done in greece, many mistakes have been made, especially in the recent period. it is true that time has been lost, and the time lost is delayed reforms, but it is also growth that has not been found. but i also think it is not fair to say that nothing has been done. on the contrary, in recent times many reforms have been voted and initiated. they have yet to be implemented. i think that things are moving forward, and from our point of view, in a positive way. the commission will continue to promote this in order to enable greece to regain economic success and to offer a future to its people, first of all to its young people, by setting up a virtuous circle. for me, the virtuous circle is clear: it is about ensuring that we are collectively able to live up to the commitments made in the july 2015 memorandum of understanding. we must therefore have the first review really behind us, the second review completed quickly, the reforms moving forward, giving a signal of economic confidence and investor returns, and from that point onwards - and i hope that by the end of the year - we can reach an agreement on debt, because it is both legitimate and expected. this requires efforts from everyone: the creditors, all the partners around the eurogroup table - including efforts in economic reflection - and above all the greek authorities - to complete the reform programme. that is what the commission will endeavour to promote - i repeat - namely the search for sustainable growth which creates jobs and which also respects the social dimension because it is absolutely essential. many of you have called - it is true and it is logical to say this in this parliament - for the deepening of the euro area, so that it has its own instruments and also more democratic governance. i share that view and that is what we will have to find in a white paper which the commission has to prepare. we will continue the discussions in the eurogroup as from monday in luxembourg, where i hope we can see that all the milestones have been reached. i shall of course be prepared to take up this debate regularly in front of you in the european parliament. i know your vigilance, i know your demands, i also know your attention to the situation in greece and your wish that greece should emerge from this endless crisis. that is what the commission wants to achieve with you.
in writing. after years and years, greece has still not come back on its feet. i have serious doubts that it is all greece's fault that it has not carried out the programmes agreed with its creditors. the condition for the success of any restructuring programme at country level is to achieve a balance between the real potential to generate revenue and the debt maturing over the duration of the programme. this balance has not been achieved under the existing programme with greece. greece's debt is far too high in relation to the real income-generating potential of this country. the creditors, including the member states of the european union, are obliged to reach this balance.
madam president, the former competition commissioner, neelie kroes, was during her term of office the director of a firm based in a tax haven, without this position ever appearing in her declaration of interests. former european commission president barroso accepted a position at goldman sachs, one of the banks that contributed most to the financial crisis. there are many examples. how do we explain this to the european citizens? where's the line? these people use the relationships that they've created during their tenure and the information that they have during their tenure, sometimes confidentially. the question is: when did these links between senior european officials and the industries in which they are then employed come into being? it seems obvious to me that they were created during their terms. we don't have a mandatory code of conduct for high-ranking officials. there must be at least a three-year ban from holding positions in the industries they have dealt with and made decisions on during their tenure in the commission. today, the term is eighteen months and has no sanction. so we need sanctions: if they don't have ethics, we need sanctions, and the sanction can only be to eliminate the pension or to reduce the pension.
madam president, trust is the foundation of democracy. unfortunately, it's hard to build and very easy to lose. people trust us, the elected, to represent them properly, not to fall prey to group interests and to decide in the general interest, based on our own convictions. this principle also applies to european commissioners. commissioners are at the heart of the european administrative apparatus, but they are and must remain accountable to citizens. that is why i think it is important that we, the voters in the european parliament, regulate the system of conflicts of interest better to ensure that the integrity, the reputation and, above all, the trust in the european institutions remain intact. we are not talking about a single case here, we are not talking about barroso, cañete and kroes alone. it's about the need for everyone, including the commissioners, to be clear. officials do have a professional life before they become dignitaries, but it is important to realise that holding a public office entails responsibilities above all. i am therefore confident that together we will find a legal framework that can transparently regulate the conflict of interest concerning european commissioners.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that young people need jobs. this requires economic development first and foremost, but in a labour market where competition is difficult, education is needed and for education the union has programmes: erasmus and all the other and programmes that have been very well received by young people and very effective. but knowledge is also needed, because knowing europe, knowing its traditions, its history and its good practices will go a long way towards helping young people to find a job, to adapt more easily, to be able to apply what they have seen at home or elsewhere, i repeat, in this single labour market. of course, we need rules, criteria, and i am convinced that by consulting young people, we will find these rules and criteria so that everyone is satisfied. commissioner, in your speech you mentioned that a pilot is needed, an initial application on a smaller scale. you have the opportunity in the 2017 budget to try to find a budget line from which to finance this pilot and in this way to see, first of all, what is the reaction, what are the best criteria and what are the rules for implementation, and please do this.
in writing. freedom of movement is one of the pillars of the european single market, the principle that allows millions of citizens to move from one member state to another. this facility contributes not only to the union's economic growth and to the promotion of tourism, but also to cementing a sense of european identity. today's statement by european transport commissioner violeta bulc on the provision of train tickets for young people recognises the urgent need to promote mobility, especially among citizens under 30. the commission must respond to the european parliament's calls to prioritise the needs of this category, which has been deeply affected economically by the crisis. a free interrail subscription would allow young people to discover europe's offer in time and would also promote a sustainable but underused means of travel. however, the commissioner's statement does not entirely meet parliament's expectations. the commission still appears to be cautious and lacking in the ambition that could breathe new life into the debate on youth mobility. however, the socialist group will continue to fight for all european citizens who turn 18 to be able to benefit from an interrail subscription.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the presence of the commission and its willingness to find a solution to the fair use issue. we all appreciate the replacement of the previous proposal, the 90-day proposal. european citizens are guaranteed free movement within the european union under the treaties. we must also guarantee our citizens the right to speak at the same rates as at home when travelling within the european union, and those who want to use this freedom fraudulently must be prevented. the commission, together with operators and national regulatory authorities, must work together to ensure a harmonised fair use policy within the european union. given that roaming charges will be abolished in 2017, the next necessary step is to address the issue of unjustified prices in intra-eu telecommunications services. cross-border telephone calls, sms, these are often too expensive for most consumers and are an obstacle to the achievement of the telecom and digital single market. the review of the regulatory framework for electronic communications is a good opportunity to address this issue as well. i also recall that the digital agenda 2020 targets are 30 mbps for all citizens of the european union and that at least 50% of european households must have internet connections above 100 mbps by 2020. what can we do to make sure that all of our citizens are connected, wherever they live, so that we have a true digital society? the european commission is proposing to create a gigabit society by 2025, which is very good, but it also needs the european union to support and finance investments in high capacity networks beyond the new regulatory framework. the european electronic communications code and the 5g action plan put forward by the commission are very good answers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital services are not used for commercial purposes.
in writing. – the end of roaming tariffs is close. nevertheless there are still unfortunately some that expect it to fail. we will make sure in the european parliament that the barriers to intra-european communication will disappear. millions of europeans are travelling across europe every year and hundreds of thousands now live in another european country and they are entitled to fair tariffs and use of their telecommunications tools. therefore i openly criticise the commission for leaking in the media the possibility of restricting the free roaming period. such things should never happen in the future because they affect our work and our credibility as a union. at the same time with this important change for our citizens we have to continue to invest in the future of european telecommunications – from the introduction of new tools like 5g to the public investments in infrastructure.
mr president, fraud against the financial interests of the eu and our taxpayers, including big vat fraud, amounts to tens of billions of euros each year. in order to be able to detect and prosecute such crimes, it is clear that we need to build a strong, independent and efficient eppo that is equipped with sufficient investigative probe powers. in this process, it is vital that the competences of the various related european institutions are clear. we need to ensure that eurojust, eppo and olaf do not duplicate work and do not step on each other’s toes, but form a coherent wall in the fight against fraud. a good division of competences could also free eurojust from the work it currently does in this field and allow it to concentrate on other crucial criminal areas such as the fight against terrorism and other threats.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission believes that sound financial reporting is vital for the efficient functioning of its capital markets. investors and other users of financial information must be able to rely on it. we do not develop the standards ourselves but use those developed by the international accounting standards board. it is for this reason that we have a rigorous endorsement process to test each standard to determine whether it should be adopted into eu law. the scrutiny period by parliament is an important part of this process. international reporting standard 9 is an important standard for financial services companies and governs the accounting for most assets and liabilities on bank balance sheets. it is for this reason that we are here today. the financial crisis showed that financial accounting has economic consequences. the g20 called on the standards board to develop a new approach to accounting for losses on lending so as to avoid reporting too little, too late and the new standard achieves this fundamental change. we assess whether a standard will be conducive to the european public good. for this reason we asked the european financial reporting advisory group, our adviser on the reporting standard, to consider a number of areas of concern in developing its endorsement advice. your question reflects some of these areas. first, we wanted to understand its effects on long—term investment. the european financial reporting advisory group did not expect that reporting standard 9 would lead to significant changes in long—term investment strategies, a finding that we recently confirmed. nevertheless, we will continue to monitor this area carefully and will work with the advisory group and the standards board to assess whether a change in the standard would be necessary. secondly, the european financial reporting advisory group identified a limitation in the standard for insurance entities. these will face a huge challenge in their accounting for their liabilities relating to their insurance contracts, which will come on board in 2020 or 2021. however, reporting standard 9, which covers the accounting for investments backing those liabilities, is effective from 2018. this misalignment of dates could give rise to volatility in reported results, as well as leading to higher costs in implementing the two standards. we therefore support a deferral of standard 9 for the insurance industry. the international accounting standards board has developed an optional temporary deferral solution which we will propose for endorsement as it will bring relief to most large pure insurance groups in the eu. the solution also includes a form of relief for bank insurers who will not qualify for a full deferral. most member states and the european supervisory authorities support this solution. nevertheless, we are currently considering whether it is satisfactory for europe as a whole. we are assessing whether the lack of a full deferral could create a significant competitive disadvantage for bank insurers compared to pure insurance groups. if we were to conclude that such risk exists, we would extend the scope of the standards board deferral to the bank insurers, taking into consideration that this is a temporary measure. however, we have not yet arrived at this conclusion. thirdly, based on the advice of the european financial reporting advisory group, which drew on input from the european central bank and the european supervisory authorities, we believe that reporting standard 9 should be an improvement over its predecessor in the area of financial stability. the commission, together with the european banking association and the basel committee, is assessing the need for a transitional phasing—in of the prudential capital effects arising from the new impairment model in reporting standard 9 so as to prevent a sudden impact on capital ratios when the standard is first applied. i should like to thank you and, in particular, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the international financial reporting standard permanent team under the chairmanship of mr stolojan for the detailed and careful consideration of this standard. in conclusion, we strongly believe that international financial reporting standard 9 should be endorsed, but our work on the standard will not stop with its endorsement. we will be vigilant to avoid any unintended consequences.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, this standard, the financial instruments, has given us a lot of headache here in the european parliament. we had many hearings, we had many letters from interested people in the banking, insurance industry. what we know very well is that the current standard has allowed banks to report hundreds of billions of dollars or euros of losses with a long delay. we have come to the conclusion in this parliament, in the econ working group, that the proposed standard, the new standard is better than the old one, even if it is not perfect. we therefore support the process of adopting the standard in the european union. we are convinced that it will allow banks in particular to apply an earlier loss recognition policy. at the same time, this resolution to be voted on in the european parliament on thursday shows a number of concerns that exist among parliamentarians, but also among those who are going to apply this international financial reporting standard. i thank the european commission and all my colleagues for the work they have done on this standard.
mr president, mr juncker's state of the union address was appreciated in my country, but it must not remain just a speech. the council is very important in putting into practice what the commission has said, what the president has said and what we say in the european parliament. europe must be a europe of jobs, we must re-industrialise it, we must develop cross-border trade and we must invest in the marginal areas of europe, increase cohesion and here the strategic investment fund can play a very big role, but it has not shown it so far. trade defence policies have not yet emerged, the integration of all member countries into the schengen area has not been achieved. i therefore ask the council, and especially the commission, to stop blocking parliament's initiatives and, as i said when analysing the state of the union: europe needs to be better explained, better communicated and more transparent, and we need to step up concrete measures for economic development, support for job-creating smes, special measures to improve people's quality of life. here are some of the issues that need to be on the agenda for the october 20-21 council meeting.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me dwell on one issue that was raised by most speakers, which is the issue of migration. it is clear to me that the european union as such cannot survive a situation of uncontrolled mass immigration into europe. it is equally clear to me that the european union cannot survive in a situation where we take leave of our fundamental values, refusing international protection to people fleeing atrocities such as in aleppo, on the grounds that they are migrants and not refugees, which is a false ground. so these are the two guiding principles i would like to apply to our migration policy. if we want to have controlled migration, and if we want to stick to our fundamental values, which is providing shelter to people fleeing from war and persecution which, i might add, is a fundamental christian value to those who seem to use christian values to keep out refugees, then we desperately need a comprehensive approach to the migration issue. we cannot pick and choose. we need to do everything, everywhere, at the same time, which means to do better at protecting our international borders, to do better at redistributing migrants who have arrived according to agreements we have reached, to make sure we also apply resettlement in those areas where refugees are now, and cannot be sustainably housed, to have agreements with third countries so that we provide for development there and that we provide for the right conditions so that economic migrants or people who seek an economic future in europe but have no right to international protection can be returned to those countries. this is a comprehensive approach and we cannot pick and choose, one or the other. those who say flexible solidarity means you can pick and choose are wrong. we need to do it all. we do not need to do everything in the same measure everywhere, but everything will have to be done by all of us. i insist on this also because i was in lampedusa a couple of days ago. and here today i want to salute the incredible efforts of the italian navy, of the people of all the international organisations involved, of the italian coastguard, who daily save hundreds, if not thousands, of people from drowning. and still we have not prevented people from drowning in the mediterranean, in incredible numbers in the southern mediterranean, and also here only a sustainable policy will help us solve this problem. fences and walls will not solve the problem. those who believe that fences and walls will solve the problem are simply fleeing from reality. just imagine that africa and the next generation will have anywhere between 3 and 6 billion people. if we do not help africa develop itself, if we did not make sure that girls can go to school, and that women do not feel they have to have nine children to survive, if we do not provide for that, no high fence, no barbed wire, no walls will stop people from coming to europe. either we help them develop themselves or we will be subject to mass immigration into europe. that, my colleagues, is something we need to do jointly, and we need to start doing it now. finally, i want to pay tribute to václav havel. i have strong memories of a speech he made in prague, and i was present there, where he recalled his memories of fighting for freedom, fighting against walls, fighting against fences, fighting against barbed wire. he said in that speech that he grew up and lived in a society where east and west were moral categories, where east and west defined a difference in values, and he was so happy that now he was president of a country and a society where east and west were reduced to mere geographical qualifications. please let us stay true to the ideas and idealism of václav havel, and please let us make sure that, in our european union, east and west remain purely geographical denominations.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, frankly it is not easy to conclude this debate while i see that movement in the audience, but i will try to do my best. (the president asked members to take their seats)the bratislava summit was mentioned quite often in this debate this morning, and i would like to thank all those who said that bratislava was a useful event. however, i am not ignoring the views of those who obviously believed or expected more to come out from bratislava. if i may say, we are not among those who are saying that bratislava was an extraordinary or exceptional success. we see it realistically and we want to measure it against the two objectives that we have set ourselves when the meeting was convened in bratislava. number one: there were clear expectations that we would have a serious, open and frank debate after brexit, but also they wanted to start a debate about the future of the european union. we have agreed in bratislava that the reflection process will start, and it will culminate next march when we will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the rome treaties, so that is one concrete result of bratislava. secondly, in bratislava, several areas and steps were defined where we agreed that we need to make clear progress in order to show tangible results. i agree with jean-claude juncker, who wished to have a more binding timetable for bratislava, and let me say that the presidency will work on the follow-up to this. i am speaking in this house just to recall that this is not only work for the council or for parliament or for the commission. there is common work that we have to do, namely that towards the end of this year, the commission, parliament and the council should agree on a common list or joint declaration of legislative priorities. so this is also the follow-up after bratislava and this is a good basis for us to work. may i also say that if bratislava was not about one thing it was definitely not a demonstration of intergovernmentalism. how otherwise could heads of state in bratislava have welcomed the state of the union speech of the president of the commission? jean-claude was right that it was maybe for the first time that heads of state had explicitly welcomed a speech that he has delivered, just two days before bratislava. second point. of course many of you referred to the tragic events unfolding in syria. russia is on the agenda of the european council. i would like to recall that the rationale for including russia on the agenda was a bit different – it was in the context of russia’s aggression against ukraine – but i agree that the events in syria are prompting us to have a broader debate, a strategic debate, about future relations with russia. lastly, honourable member in 't veld asked a question on whether we as a presidency are ready to work with you on the asylum package. i would not see the council as being a bottleneck on this particular issue. i would like to say that what the commission has proposed is a far-reaching reform of the asylum system, including dublin. member states will feel the impact of this and we simply need more time to explore what can be done. the presidency wants to organise this work speedily. it took us recently five years to agree on many elements which are on the table right now, but we want to organise our work in a way which will not cause further divisions on these very sensitive issues. but be sure that the council and the presidency are working hard towards having agreement on many elements of asylum towards the end of this year.
mr president, this is not on the agenda, but i would like to speak here to denounce the fact that a few days ago the russian authorities arrested a ukrainian journalist, roman shushchenko. this journalist, who was doing his job, was put in jail and accused of being a spy. such situations are unacceptable. we call on the russian authorities to immediately release this ukrainian journalist. i repeat, his name is roman sushchenko.
in writing. the european council must come up with viable solutions to a number of issues facing the european union at the moment. the cause of migration must be found and migration problems must be solved at source. controlling migration flows requires a new policy of cooperation with third countries. russia's policy of intervention in syria has to be questioned. russia is not a european partner for humanitarian measures, just as it is not a european partner for energy projects like nord stream 2. ceta and ttip trade agreements must take into account the concerns of european citizens. the eu must inform public opinion about every benefit for the citizen: job creation, development of fair trade, etc. i stress the need to strengthen european legislative instruments for reindustrialisation. these agreements must contribute positively to creating the right conditions for eu industry, which is facing unfair competition on the world market, where the same standards and rules are not respected. on brexit, i think the eu needs to agree on expectations for the uk's new status. fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of movement, must not be affected by this new status of the uk.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is one of the main instruments for promoting children's rights. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between central authorities aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. these cases arise mainly in situations where the parents come from different countries, countries that have not consolidated a cooperation partnership. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the situation of the child in the member state concerned. the hague convention thus aims to resolve such disputes at international level by providing for a system ensuring the immediate return of illegally displaced or retained children. the accession of the republic of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an action that i consider appropriate given the considerable number of union citizens of peruvian origin who will be able to be protected against child abduction. i spoke in favour of the accession of the republic of peru to the hague convention, as i consider it essential that the prevention of child abduction remains a priority for the european union and third states.
in writing. ‒ considering that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an extremely important instrument whose main objective is to resolve cases of international child abduction, i welcome the accession of the republic of peru to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross-border cases of child custody. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights over the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified. this report aims at giving austria and romania the authorisation to accept the accession of peru to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between peru and the entire eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at giving austria and romania the authorisation to accept the accession of peru to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between peru and the entire eu. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ peru recently joined the convention on child abduction, but romania and austria have not yet accepted this. but i think romania and austria should do so, because only then will the convention be able to apply in relations between the eu as a whole and this south american country. the convention adopted in the hague on 25 october 1980, which defines the legal framework of the united nations on parental child abduction, is a very important instrument for the regulation of this crime. ratified by all eu member states as well as other countries around the world (93 in total), the document clarifies situations where the courts of two different countries dealing with a case (where the parents are of different nationalities) consider each other to have jurisdiction and, consequently, grant custody in parallel to the parent in that country. the convention shed light on these cases by establishing that the court of the child's country of residence has jurisdiction. as an immediate consequence, if the child is with the parent who does not reside in the same state as the child, then the child must be brought to the country where the parent who has the same residence as the child is. the european union has exclusive competence in these cases, as confirmed by the european court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention has as its primary objective the cases of international abduction of children due to the separation of the parents who have different citizenship from each other. i have voted for this report that will grant the accession of peru to the convention in order to ensure eu’s protection to the children in that specific part.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important agreement to help avoid legal uncertainty in cases of cross border child custody. in those cases where custody of children is contested, a quick and fair resolution is in the interests of the child. delays, confusion and uncertainty, not to mention expensive legal bills, should be avoided as far as possible. i welcome the addition of these new countries to this convention, which is a vital form of cooperation in our increasingly interconnected world.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document, adopted internationally in 1980 and ratified by all eu member states, which established cooperation between signatory states in this sensitive area. this situation arises in particular from divorces of transnational couples and creates difficulties at the level of national states in the care of minor children. the convention governs the settlement of such cases and provides for the application of the law of the child's state of residence and the immediate return of abducted children. as the eu has exclusive external competence in this area, member states should be authorised to accept the accession of third states to the convention. this is the case with the accession of the republic of peru, which has had a number of internal conflicts in the past but has successfully overcome that period. the council now has to authorise two member states, austria and romania, to accept this accession, which will allow the convention to enter into force between peru and the whole eu. this is an important step in favour of eu citizens of peruvian origin, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aims to address cases of international child abduction. in 2014, at the request of the european commission, the court of justice of the european union was consulted on the competence of the union with regard to the acceptance of the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. the opinion of the court of justice in october 2014 confirmed the existence of the exclusive competence of the union to accept the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. in may 2001, peru deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention, but following its accession to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise the last two eu member states that have not yet accepted accession, austria and romania. this will allow the effective entry into force of the convention between peru and the whole of the european union. the european parliament's report supports the accession of that state to the convention and proposes approval without amendments so that the children concerned are guaranteed the protection granted throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is one of the main instruments for promoting children's rights. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between central authorities aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. these cases arise mainly in situations where the parents come from different countries, countries that have not consolidated a cooperation partnership. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the situation of the child in the member state concerned. the hague convention thus aims to resolve such disputes at international level by providing for a system ensuring the immediate return of illegally displaced or retained children. the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an action i consider appropriate. i spoke in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention as i consider it essential that the prevention of child abduction remains a priority for the european union and third countries.
in writing. ‒ considering that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument whose main objective is to resolve cases of international child abduction, i welcome kazakhstan's accession to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross border cases of child custody. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights over the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified. this report aims at giving austria and romania the authorisation to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the entire eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at giving member states, with the exception of denmark to which this is not applicable, the authorisation to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the entire eu. the netherlands already accepted it.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention has as its primary objective cases of international abduction of children due to the separation of the parents who have different citizenship from each other. i have voted for this report that will grant the accession of kazakhstan to the convention in order to ensure the eu’s protection to the children in that specific part.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document, adopted internationally in 1980 and ratified by all eu member states, which established cooperation between signatory states in this sensitive area. the application of the convention in relation to third countries throughout the eu requires the authorisation of the member states by the european council. this is also the case with the accession of kazakhstan, a country close to the eu with which the member states have very good relations. the council now needs to authorise the majority of member states, with the exception of the netherlands, which has already accepted the accession of kazakhstan, and denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, to accept this accession, which will allow the entry into force of the kazakhstan-eu convention. i consider this to be an important step in favour of eu citizens of kazakh origin, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aims to address cases of international child abduction. in 2014, at the request of the european commission, the court of justice of the european union was consulted on the competence of the union with regard to the acceptance of the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. the opinion of the court of justice in october 2014 confirmed the existence of the exclusive competence of the union to accept the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. in june 2013, kazakhstan deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention, but following its accession to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise member states, with the exception of the netherlands which has already accepted accession and denmark which is excluded from the union's policy in the field of civil justice, to accept such accession. this will allow the effective entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. the european parliament's report supports the accession of that state to the convention and proposes that the council decision be approved without amendment, so that the children concerned are guaranteed the protection afforded to them throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is one of the main instruments for promoting children's rights. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between central authorities aimed at resolving cases of international child abduction. these cases arise mainly in situations where the parents come from different countries, countries that have not consolidated a cooperation partnership. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the situation of the child in the member state concerned. the hague convention thus aims to resolve such disputes at international level by providing for a system ensuring the immediate return of illegally displaced or retained children. the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an action i consider appropriate. i spoke in favour of the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention because i consider it essential that the prevention of child abduction remains a priority for the european union and third states.
in writing. ‒ considering that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an extremely important instrument whose main objective is to resolve cases of international child abduction, i welcome the accession of the republic of korea to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, adopted in 1980, is an international instrument of cooperation, enabling signatory states to settle cross-border cases of child custody. the convention clarifies the applicable national law in cases when there is a conflict of competence between two or more national legal systems. the scope regards civil aspects, so it concerns mostly situations of separated parents or other persons having legal rights on the child. given that the scope of the convention is protecting children finding themselves in legal uncertainty, the aim is to have it ratified by as many states as possible. all eu member states have ratified. this report aims at giving austria and romania the authorisation to accept the accession of korea to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between korea and the entire eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at giving member states, with the exception of denmark to which this is not applicable, the authorisation to accept the accession of south korea to the convention, which will allow the entering into force of the convention between south korea and the entire eu. the czech republic, ireland and lithuania already accepted it.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention has as primary objective the international abduction of children due to the separation of the parents who have different citizenship from each other. i have voted for this report that will grant the accession of the republic of korea to the convention in order to ensure the eu’s protection to the children in that specific part.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction in 1980 was a very important moment at international level. the convention has been ratified by all eu member states, establishing cooperation between signatory states in this field. the application of the convention in relation to third countries throughout the eu requires the authorisation of the member states by the european council. this is also the case with the accession of south korea, an important asian partner with which the member states have very good relations. the council now has to authorise the majority of member states, with the exception of the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea, and denmark, which is excluded from the union's civil justice policy, to accept this accession, which will allow the entry into force of the south korean-eu convention. it is an important step in favour of eu citizens of korean descent, which is why i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction aims to address cases of international child abduction. in 2014, at the request of the european commission, the court of justice of the european union was consulted on the competence of the union with regard to the acceptance of the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. the opinion of the court of justice in october 2014 confirmed the existence of the exclusive competence of the union to accept the accession of a third state to the 1980 convention. in december 2012, the republic of korea deposited its instrument of accession to the 1980 convention, but following its accession to the convention, a council decision is required to authorise member states, with the exception of those that have already accepted accession and denmark, which is excluded from union policy in the field of civil justice, to accept such accession. this will allow the effective entry into force of the convention between the republic of korea and the whole of the european union. the european parliament's report supports the accession of that state to the convention and proposes approval without amendments so that the children concerned are guaranteed the protection granted throughout the union.
mr. president, we are talking about food security in the world. aristophanes told us that "hunger knows no friend but the one who feeds it". let us stop feeding the hungry and ask the commission to increase investment in regions where people have nothing to eat. the un relief agency tells us that over 800 million people in the world don't have enough food to be healthy. in other words, they starve to death sooner or later. over 200 million children suffer in their development also because of malnutrition and not having enough to eat. let's tell the truth about all these people: they're starving. eradicating hunger and malnutrition by 2030, as we set out to do, can only be done by investing in these regions to create jobs, investing in agriculture or in those areas, in those professions in which they are skilled or their families.
in writing. ‒ i believe that long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be mobilised to improve food security and nutrition through better governance and increased accountability, through systemic food and nutrition policies that take into account gender, sustainable agriculture, access to and use of natural resources, and the creation and expansion of inclusive and entitlement-based social protection systems, targeting in particular the most vulnerable and marginalised groups.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, which underlines the importance of the development of social safety nets. i would like to underline the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2, which aims at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholder farms and achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems. currently, 159 million children are stunted and 50 million are affected by wasting. malnutrition has a tremendous impact on their development and health and fuels the cycle of poverty. the level of investments remains inadequate. the commission nutrition action plan pledged to reduce stunting by 7 million children by 2025 and should honour its commitments, ensuring that it addresses all forms of undernutrition while also filling the huge current funding gap for nutrition—specific interventions.
in writing. ‒ food as part of the right to an adequate standard of living is recognised by the universal declaration of human rights of 1948. i have voted for this proposal that reaffirms the importance of ending global starvation through the action of national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a realistic approach to the causes of malnutrition in all its forms. an important point is the call to both the eu and the international community to speak with one voice in favour of the 'right to breastfeed', an extremely important issue for both the mother and the development of children. one aspect considered in the report is the encouragement of small farmers to adopt agricultural practices that ensure production in line with market needs, as this is a necessary condition for improving food security and nutrition. last but not least, the report stresses the right to water for all, an idea that is not included in human rights but is complementary to the right to food.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security. one of the global goals of sustainable development on the 2030 global agenda is to reduce poverty and malnutrition, which is why i support increasing the productivity of small producers in rural areas, the idea of sustainability in the agricultural sector and responsible management at european and global level in the food industry. food and nutrition depend on the earth's resources and how they are managed. so i think that at the national level, each country has to protect these resources and refuse to alienate them.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on attaining global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security. achieving the sustainable development goals implies a much more sophisticated management of natural resources than is currently in place. ending hunger and malnutrition, especially in the context of a growing world population, will require significant improvements in terms of land use and resource efficiency. adapting agricultural practices and prioritising resilience to climate change will be essential if we are to increase food production and improve diets without placing unsustainable demands on natural resources and ecosystem services. an integrated approach which addresses issues including land use, agriculture, diet, and climate change is necessary if we are to achieve our ambitious global goals.
in writing. ‒ the european union supports the achievement of the global sustainable development goals internationally agreed by the member states. these include defending the right to food and, at the same time, eradicating hunger worldwide. currently, no less than 161 million children worldwide are affected by chronic malnutrition, which has a negative impact on their development, and 41 million children under five years of age are overweight or obese. this situation needs to be managed appropriately by the specialised international bodies, but also by the eu and the member states. in 2013, the eu committed to reducing stunting by at least 7 million by 2025 and allocating €3.5 billion for this purpose by 2020. however, the level of investment in food security remains insufficient. a concerted effort by the european institutions and eu member states, but also by developing countries, is needed to secure long-term investment in sustainable agriculture, responsible use of resources, elimination of waste, elimination of gender discrimination, public hygiene and protection of vulnerable groups. this resolution will help to improve the situation.
mr president, the fraud with european money is estimated at over 500 million euros every year. and in the last ten years, the referral rate was 31% of the hundreds of judicial recommendations made by olaf. in short, what we have today is not working and european people, european citizens continue to be robbed. the parliament therefore asks the council, when it comes to the proposal in parliament for the creation of the european prosecutor's office, to at least: give the european prosecutor priority jurisdiction over all offences under the pif directive, including the vat carousel. second, sufficient access to the means of investigation. thirdly, the importance of avoiding the negative effects of national links. fourth, obviously, the protection of the rights of the suspect and the accused. my message to the council is very simple: we will not accept a weak text, which creates a weak institution, because the money of european citizens will continue to be stolen.
in writing. ‒ taking into account that the protection of the european union's financial interests is one of the european commission's major concerns and that responsibility for this objective is shared between the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and eurojust the european judicial cooperation agency, considers it important to clarify the relations between eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office, on the one hand, and between the european public prosecutor's office and olaf, on the other hand, which will contribute to improving judicial cooperation and coordination between judicial authorities in order to protect the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ support for the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office cannot be unconditional. some of the changes to the commission’s proposal introduced by the council present real dangers to the independence, effectiveness and added value of any such office. for example, the risks of the ‘national link’ introduced by council, through which national delegated prosecutors are responsible for all prosecutions brought in their member state. i believe we need to conclude the negotiations on the directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law (pif directive) – which will lay down the criminal offences for which the eppo will have jurisdiction – before parliament can be asked to consent to the eppo text. moreover, we must ensure adequate judicial review in respect of decisions taken by the eppo, irrespective of whether those decisions are taken at a national or central level. finally, particular attention shall be paid to procedural rights, in particular legal aid, when establishing a cross-border prosecutor of this nature.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) is welcome. however, there are many questions and concerns that arise from such an establishment regarding independence, efficiency and effectiveness. changes and improvements must be made to this project before gaining full support.
in writing. ‒ the european public prosecutor’s office will have the authority to investigate and prosecute eu fraud and other crimes that have an impact on the eu’s financial interests. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that acknowledges the european parliament’s support for the creation of the european public prosecutor’s office.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report, in which parliament reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an independent and effective european public prosecutor's office. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a basic prerequisite for the intensification of transnational law enforcement efforts, both in the area of crimes against the security of european citizens, cross-border crime and in the tax area. the report calls on the commission to present adjusted estimates of the budgetary implications of the new structure in a cost-benefit analysis and to present the results of the 'situation assessment' to parliament. last but not least, for more effective collaboration and information exchange, the report supports the idea of a joint seat for the european parliament and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, as it is very important that the eu and all its member states detect and prosecute in an effective manner fraud affecting the eu’s financial interests, thus protecting the taxpayers of all member states who contribute to the union’s budget. this is especially relevant since organised cross-border crime has increased in the past decade and is committed by extremely mobile, flexible groups, which are active in many member states and areas of crime. i stand behind the idea of establishing an efficient and independent european public prosecutor’s office in order to straighten the fight against fraud in the european union. as stated in this report, the european public prosecutor’s office should have sufficient investigative measures available to conduct its investigations thoroughly and should cooperate and share information with eurojust, in order to increase the efficiency of its work.
mr president, when dealing with massive job losses caused by changes in world trade and technology, i believe we need to follow a comprehensive approach. first, we need to demonstrate true compassion and take care of those who are hurt by open trade or changing global economic patterns. we should also insist more on active employment policies and training for workers to help people get back into the labour market. however, training can only function efficiently if we have dynamic and competitive economies to create new jobs and bring back the dismissed into the labour force. i think the report duly recognised this, and i was glad to vote for it.
mr. president, in september, caterpillar announced that it would lay off 10,000 people. in france, alstom is also about to cease production at one of its combines after 130 years of activity. it is true that industries, especially extractive industries, have been facing a shortage of supply for several years and as such production is declining. and in my country, romania, the hunedoara power complex announced that it would lay off over 800 employees, and the oltenia power complex laid off over 1 300 employees in the first six months of this year. of course we are in solidarity with them and on the state's money they must be prepared to be able to do other jobs, to have other work. but we need innovation, we need 21st century industries, and as such, that's what we need to focus our money on, not to maintain industries that we no longer need. so innovation, 21st century industries, and that's where our money should go.
in writing. ‒ given the exposure of european industry to global competition, i believe that only an ambitious innovation policy, favouring the manufacture of high quality, innovative and energy-efficient products and promoting new production processes, will enable the european union to stand on its own feet in an increasingly competitive global context, thus allowing european industries to create r & d partnerships or strategic alliances and not limit their analysis to the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because i support the need to re-industrialize europe and increase jobs. european industry needs to maintain its competitiveness and its ability to invest in europe. in addition, european industry also faces social and environmental challenges that it needs to overcome. unfortunately, some companies follow strategies that focus only on short-term financial gains, which tend to negatively affect innovation and employment. there is a need for reindustrialisation, but also for the development of technical skills for a competitive industry. i believe that it is essential, in order to maximise the net job creation potential of the green economy, that the existing workforce has adequate opportunities to acquire the new skills needed for the circular economy. good collaboration between education systems, universities and the labour market is also vital for the creation of innovative interactive networks.
in writing. in the context of the recent caterpillar cases, europe urgently needs a new european reindustrialisation policy. the eu needs to develop border adjustment mechanisms to avoid ecological dumping and dumping of cheaper but poor quality products. these products do nothing but destroy european standards and affect the competitiveness of european industries. if the eu imposes a set of environmental and social standards, then the same european union must protect its industry and anticipate socioeconomic situations that lead to the dissolution of industrial capacities and the loss of many jobs. europe urgently needs to propose a strategy to cope with global competition from low-cost exporting countries on the european market, countries with a policy of rapid expansion across all continents and political and financial support from their governments. i ask the commission to start the consultation process with the social partners as a matter of urgency on the effectiveness of legislation on the legality of collective redundancies. i call on the commission to propose a revision of the european works council directive and to come forward with a legislative proposal on the information and consultation of workers, anticipation and management of restructuring.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for a reindustrialisation policy in the eu following the redundancy plans of caterpillar and alstom.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 paris agreement is the first multilateral climate change agreement covering almost all global emissions. the agreement is a success for the whole world and a confirmation of the eu's orientation towards a low-carbon economy. the energy union project provides a broader framework within which the eu can provide an appropriate enabling environment for the energy transition. according to the international energy agency, full implementation of climate plans will lead to usd 13,5 trillion in investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies between 2015 and 2030, with an annual average of usd 840 billion. in addition, the future energy union research, innovation and competitiveness strategy will take advantage of synergies between the energy sector, the transport sector, the circular economy, as well as industrial and digital innovation. this should lead to increased competitiveness of current and future european low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which offers immediate solutions to two situations with complex economic and social implications, but which at the same time sends a signal of solidarity with the regions of europe facing relocations of large enterprises. we are all aware that european industrial production is declining and that we need a european reindustrialisation policy to prevent this from happening again. in this respect, the document adopted today reiterates the need for a european reindustrialisation policy that promotes cooperation between old and newly established companies, which can create a much-needed oxygen bubble in the business environment. in this context, the european parliament calls on the european commission, in collaboration with the member states, to promote innovation and the digitalisation of european industry, taking into account the labour market offer, and thus create the conditions for new job creation.
in writing. ‒ in contrast, with the negative effects of globalisation materialising at an exponential rate, a reindustrialisation of europe is absolutely necessary. the european reindustrialisation policy must obviously focus on making human capital profitable, as it is the source of innovation and creativity. to this end, companies need to promote proactive behaviour and invest in a human-centred development model. it should be noted that the assumption of social responsibility by all european companies is the foundation for the viable and sustainable reindustrialisation of europe. compliance with a stakeholder engagement standard would lead, at a minimum, to the protection of workers, to the respect of their fundamental rights and to a viable and sustainable management of their careers, to ensuring cooperation and to valuing the involvement of all stakeholders in the decisions and actions of companies, to the development of fundamental and experimental research projects funded by structural funds and european investments in the sustainable development of european entities, communities and regions, etc. we hope for a coherent strategy on european reindustrialisation policy so that european entities can address global social and environmental challenges.
in writing. ‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases reflect an intensification of restructuring in several eu countries as a result of changes in the economic environment. in this context, member states will face significant economic challenges in the near future and must take all measures to improve the productivity and innovation levels of industry. i also believe that informing and consulting workers is an essential element of the social models in the member states. for this reason, stressing that the eu and its member states must coordinate their policies to ensure that they have sustainable and competitive manufacturing industries, i am voting in favour of the resolution.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, once again i am representing the vice-president of the commission/high representative. she is not able to be here and therefore as usual she has asked the presidency to speak on her behalf, and it is a great honour for me to participate in this important debate about syria. unfortunately, i have to start by recognising the fact that what we see in syria right now is the biggest humanitarian catastrophe of the century, and it is getting worse by the day. our exchange serves as an important input to the discussion among the eu foreign ministers at the next foreign affairs council in mid-october. in spite of the international community’s efforts to restore a nationwide ceasefire and press the parties in the conflict to come back to the negotiation table in geneva, the violence has escalated once again during the last two weeks. we have all seen the dreadful pictures of entire families caught in debris inaleppo under waves of bombardments. we all condemned the despicable attacks on the humanitarian aid convoy on 19 september and the deaths of the eight workers of the syrian red crescent, who lost their lives while trying to save others. last month in new york, at the un general assembly, a number of attempts were made to get the us—russia deal on the cessation of hostilities back on track. the high representative/vice—president has been actively involved in this effort through meetings with the syrian opposition, us and russian ministers as well as with the main regional players in the conflict. two international syria support group ministerial meetings were organised, which tried to salvage the cessation of hostilities and reduce the violence in the country. neither meeting led to a positive outcome. in fact the syrian parties are now further away from a negotiated solution for a political transition than before. let me reassure you that we are incessantly at work to contribute to the ending of the conflict and of the suffering of the syrian people. the political answers in the case of the syrian conflict are never straightforward or black and white. as we are working towards a renewed strategy for syria, let me recall the three policy tracks established by the international syria support group and the eu’s contribution to each: the humanitarian track, the ceasefire and the political track. firstly, the humanitarian track remains a core mission for the european union. we are – and always will be – the main donor of humanitarian aid for syria. the commission reactivated the echo office in damascus earlier this year. no matter what happens, our first duty is to provide support and hope to the syrian people, be it to the refugees in turkey, lebanon and jordan, in europe or inside syria, and especially in the besieged and hard-to-reach areas. we need to continue to do all we can to push for unhindered humanitarian aid deliveries throughout syria and an end to the targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure. we continue to work with the united nations and with syrian organisations in this field, including inside syria, to deliver the aid needed. therefore high representative mogherini and commissioner stylianides launched an eu initiative on aleppo over the weekend, based on two main elements: first, let in humanitarian aid. we are working to facilitate the urgent delivery of basic lifesaving assistance to civilians in eastern aleppo. if the un ceasefire of at least two days is agreed, an inter—agency aid convoy will be ready to reach east aleppo from west aleppo to let out the wounded and the sick. we are working to ensure medical evacuations from east aleppo, with the focus on women, children and elderly people. this will be done in close cooperation with un agencies and other international agencies. in the last few days, the high representative has discussed this proposal with a number of international players, including the united states, russia and iran. the commission has also made eur 25 million available in an emergency fund for addressing priority needs, including health, water, food supplies and services. the eu will not be directly involved in operations on the ground but will provide pre-funding and assist in the facilitation operation, reaching out to partners on the ground, as well as to regional players in support of the initiative. but addressing the current emergency is not enough. the syrians in syria need access to services, education for their children and hospitals for the injured. they need jobs and functioning local economies if we want to build a strong society, if we want to avoid more refugees fleeing syria and if we want to avoid the radicalisation of the next generation of syrians. in the absence of a top—down political solution, we need to start building peace from the bottom up by helping local communities and civilian administration to start functioning and provide services to the local population in areas where this is possible. this is in line with the foreign affairs council conclusions of may 2016 that commit us to investing in civil society and support for local resilience inside syria. secondly, on the ceasefire, the eu as such is not a military player in the conflict. the greater responsibility lies with those who are supplying military assets and personnel. they have the leverage to push for an end to hostilities if they choose to, so we must continue to reach out to these regional actors. none of them will want syria to fall apart, but syria will fall apart if the war continues. we need to convince all actors that a political solution is the only option ahead of us. no side will win this war on the field. military offensives cannot bring victory nor impose peace, but only prolong the bloodshed. it took 16 years for the lebanese people to put an end to their civil war. we cannot afford such a scenario in syria. this leads me to the final and most important track: the political track. in these times of despair for the syrians, we must not lose hope in a political process and must never stop working for it. as the un special envoy, staffan de mistura, has recently explained in the un security council, losing hope equals abandoning the syrian people to death and devastation. many are working and many are now looking to europe for answers. high representative mogherini and her officials are engaged in a constant dialogue with the united states, russia and the countries of the region. we are thinking out of the box about what can create the conditions for the syrians to start talking seriously about their future within the parameters that have been set by previous attempts in geneva and by the un security council. we are aware of the different concerns and interests of the parties in the conflict and their own political objectives in syria. however, none of them can justify the indiscriminate targeting of civilians and the atrocities committed. in boston ten days ago, the foreign ministers of the united states, the united kingdom, france, germany and italy, and high representative mogherini, called on russia to take steps to restore the credibility of our effort, including by halting the regime’s bombardment of its own people. the high representative is also in direct contact with the syrian political opposition. we will continue to engage with them and support their quest for democracy, the rule of law and comprehensive and genuine political transition in the country while also committing to work towards the preservation of state institutions and the protection of minority rights. it is vital to maintain their engagement in the political process and to support the moderate opposition, otherwise we will face a growing process of the radicalisation of the syrian opposition, especially the armed groups, that could have long—term destructive consequences for the entire region. it is the european union’s political and moral duty to light the candle of hope again for the syrian people.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, aleppo is experiencing a major humanitarian disaster. every principle of international law is being flouted. civilians, hospitals and humanitarian personnel are the targets of syrian and russian bombing. the united states announced that it could no longer cooperate with russia on the syrian issue because putin has not respected his own commitments. but i ask the following question: when did the russian leader live up to his promises? in crimea, did he keep his promises? i think it's the same in russia. it should be emphasized that russia is directly responsible for the escalation of violence in the syrian conflict. this country has never engaged in syria to fight terrorism. putin simply insisted on supporting his friend assad. i would like to welcome the proposal by mrs mogherini and commissioner stylianides to set up an emergency humanitarian initiative for aleppo. i regret that neither of them is here with us today. we must do everything possible to facilitate the delivery of emergency aid to civilians and to ensure medical evacuations. i know that the union is investing a great deal in this humanitarian aspect. but we must also invest in other areas, particularly at the diplomatic level. the european union's role in resolving the syrian conflict is far too timid, even though this war has a significant impact on europe. but to really play a role in resolving the conflict, we must no longer have illusions about russia. we need to work with the united states, just as the united states needs to work with us. it has to be mutual. we can't commit ourselves. i thank you very much for your attention, including the communist group that still supports putin. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". it is not really a question, but i am very clear to my colleague that, yes, you have to choose your side. you shouldn't work with people who are at war. and the people who are making war are assad and putin, who don't really want to solve this conflict. they have made it difficult - we said that a year ago when we had the first debate after the russian intervention - and since then the russian strategy has been clear.
madam president, as the un secretary-general was here yesterday, i would like to start by quoting from him. he has recently stated on aleppo: ‘imagine the destruction, people with no limbs – blown off, children in terrible pain with no relief, infected, suffering, dying, with nowhere to go and no end in sight. imagine a slaughterhouse. this is worse. even a slaughterhouse is more humane’. tough words, but the most appropriate description of the carnage in aleppo. aleppo reminds us of coventry, dresden, and grozny, the last episode where russia practised the complete destruction of a human community. as we speak, assad and russian forces are continuing and intensifying indiscriminate bombing. the brutal character of the war in syria, in particular in aleppo, and the use of the most ruthless practices, including the use of chemical weapons, incendiary and bunker bombs, cannot remain unnoticed, and i would say to my colleagues of other political groups: colleagues, silence can be seen today as complicity. we have to act. there is deliberate targeting of civilians, humanitarian workers and hospitals. the water supply has been cut off. these attacks are not only unacceptable, they are crimes in the spirit and the character of international law and of international humanitarian law, and we should treat them as such. so, what to do? there are three issues. i welcome very much the action taken by the european union and the humanitarian support to aleppo. the second: i urge the high representative to work with the un to win a ceasefire and to allow the convoy of humanitarian aid to get into aleppo; and thirdly: consider taking immediate sanctions against the governments committing and aiding to commit despicable crimes. one year ago i alerted this house that this could be a pax russica. colleagues, here we are one year later. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think we should do. we should start thinking of building up political support for such an action, because if we let things continuously develop in this manner, it will be not only be too late, but there will be nobody surviving in aleppo and there no possibility to win peace in syria and stability in the middle east. europe cannot continue looking from its windows at what is happening in the middle east.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs arnautu, i would like to know if your party has already obtained the second loan from the russian banks?
in writing. following the end of the ceasefire on 19 september, the syrian army and its russian ally resumed armed actions in aleppo to seize rebel-held neighborhoods in a reprehensible attack on the humanitarian convoy that killed eight syrian red crescent humanitarian workers. what is it, though, aleppo? aleppo had a population of more than 1.5 million before the war began and was syria's second largest city. today, after the bombing and destruction, its eastern part is a ghost town. the syrian conflict began more than five years ago and can only be resolved by a clear intention of the world powers to negotiate an end to it. the terrible attack on the humanitarian convoy in aleppo last month, as well as the destruction of the m10 hospital on monday, 3 october, by the russian-backed syrian regime, urgently calls for the eu to provide humanitarian aid and a ceasefire (although the union as an entity is not a military player). i welcome the initiative launched by high representative federica mogherini and commissioner stylianides for the eu to support aleppo, as people urgently need services (especially medical services to ensure their survival).
in writing. who and especially how will pax syriana be written? syria now looks like a puzzle whose pieces have been damaged by too many failed attempts to match them. the actors involved are more numerous and more diverse than in libya and iraq, more determined and more determined to not give in to a single plan for political change. but after five years of war in syria, it's clear that the wounds are extremely deep for everyone involved. for the sake of building a lasting peace, i believe that the european union should support the crystallization of two projects that would bring together all the factions involved in the war, with the exception of terrorist groups. it would be easier to start a democratic dialogue if we had not 10 or 15 factions at the negotiating table, but two projects around which the other opinions could be coagulated. once the democratic process is in place, it will build mutual trust, and the inevitable compromises will be less painful. a real democracy is built through dialogue between power and opposition, which recognize each other's legitimacy. syria needs to get to that point for the war to end and for the millions of refugees to return to the country.
in writing. – when confronted with the horrible savagery of the russian aerial assaults on aleppo that deliberately target children’s hospitals with bunker buster bombs, it's terrible to feel that there is nothing we can do but watch with outrage. as the us ambassador to the un recently said, ‘what russia is sponsoring and doing is not counter-terrorism, it is barbarism. instead of pursuing peace, russia and assad make war. instead of helping get aid to civilians, russia and assad are bombing the humanitarian convoys, hospitals and first responders who are trying desperately to keep people alive.’ we have to ask ourselves how such a devastation is possible without the international community holding the perpetrators accountable. history will be right in judging us for standing on the sidelines and watching syria fall prey to such atrocities.
madam president, in expressing commitment to a carbon—free future, the signature of the cop21 agreement represents a remarkable global achievement. what we have to do now is to translate this commitment into action; to implement what has been included in the agreement, but also to go beyond what has already been agreed. one such area would be carbon pricing, an issue rather left out of the paris agreement, but which could bear crucial importance in emissions reduction. as opposed to emissions trading schemes – which in the past have often proved less effective because of the inflation in the tradable permits handed out – carbon taxes would represent a more effective way to reduce emissions: they would transform the cost of pollution from a negative externality into actual costs, favouring a change in polluting behaviour. additionally, revenues from such costs could, in the end, be used for the financing of new renewable energy infrastructures, thus starting a new virtuous cycle.
madam president, it has been eight years since we have been discussing the need to introduce a mandatory register for lobby companies and lobbyists and nothing has happened, it is all voluntary. it's been six years since transparency international has asked for the same thing and again nothing has happened, we're still there. this interinstitutional agreement is very important, and the commission's concrete proposal to make it compulsory to register lobbyists in this register, lobbyists in parliament and in the commission, is very important. but given the long period that has passed and nothing has happened, we've only spoken but the vote hasn't passed, i'm skeptical. however, i hope and want to have a mandatory register. if each of us had taken an obligation of integrity and not talked to lobbyists who are not on this voluntary register, then maybe the situation would have been different and we would not have had conflicts of interest and we would not have had the squabbling over amendments. i hope that at least in the twelfth hour we all understand what institutional dignity means and that we are in this parliament because it was voted by people who expect us to be transparent and to work for them.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened to the views of this house with great care and great interest, and before that you have heard my reflections setting out the commission’s views on the report and, more broadly, on this complex yet very vital sector and its importance as regards consumer safety. i would like to thank once again ms schaldemose and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for all their hard work on this file, and i can declare here that the commission will consider all of the points made in the report, and also in this debate, in the future work.
in writing. materials not regulated by specific union measures endanger public health, the environment and people's trust in us. it creates legal uncertainty and higher costs for both operators and consumers. i want to eliminate all hazardous materials that come in contact with food. then people need to know what they're eating and what they're feeding their children. labelling is a very direct and effective tool for informing consumers about the characteristics of products. we have shortcomings in the development, implementation and enforcement of the legislation in force; smes, for example, in the absence of relevant legislation, are not able to receive or transmit information that guarantees that their products are safe. good regulation and strict controls protect people's health and stimulate the economy. let's take them.
in writing. the application of the regulation should lead to lower costs for natural entities and to increased food safety and health for natural entities, and to lower costs for legal entities registered in the field of acs, which would be able to develop safe, recyclable and reusable acs, thus contributing to the efficiency of the circular economy. this can be achieved to the extent that the increase in efsa's level of funding would be reflected in the outcomes of r&d and innovation, scientific research and risk assessment of cmrs, identification and classification of all substances present in cmrs (including their impact on human health). it is clear that ensuring the consistency of the regulations on cmr, biocidal products, harmful substances and waste, and clarifying the role of the different institutions and bodies involved in this area are essential issues. however, we must be aware that not only a responsible commitment by all member states to implement legislation in this area and to strengthen compliance checks, but also the exchange of good practices with a view to applying relevant and effective authorisation procedures for the 13 non-harmonised aacs is particularly important in this context.
madam president, two thirds of national legislation is influenced by decisions taken at european level. this is essential for building a united and coherent european union. however, european legislation is very often blamed for its density and for the fact that it would generate too much bureaucracy. it is interesting that citizens nevertheless call for the union to intervene in areas where there is no competence, and that member states seek the support of a united europe in difficult situations. we see this in the sheer number of requests and petitions that come to us, whether from citizens or from state and local governments. it is clear that we need to increase transparency in the european decision-making process. we need to involve citizens more directly, communicate with civil society and ensure that european legislation is known and understood before it is implemented. the legal action of the european union must once again be seen as the result of broad consultation and an expression of the general interest and that is why we come out with a number of recommendations, together with our colleagues in the european parliament, such as: increasing online interaction, developing advisory councils or establishing a more transparent institutional dialogue with the member states and groups concerned by european measures.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that i agree with what she has said in her report. the different forms of implementation in the member states ultimately create discrimination between citizens. as you said, commissioner, the main problem is not the lack of european legislation. i often get the impression that there's an overregulation. the issue is monitoring the implementation of union law and the action taken in the event of breaches of european law. i want to convey the perception of the citizens of my country, it's my duty to do so, as a person elected to represent them. many citizens feel that on the one hand it is difficult to solve their problems and that the same petition is often resolved differently, on the other hand citizens want more transparency, simplified procedures and clear measures against those who violate european citizens' law. there have been examples here too, and i would like to add one more, which i have also encountered in my own country, namely: the right to appeal is not respected, that deadline for resolving the appeal. member states shall take decisions before that deadline expires. that is why, commissioner, in my view, the emphasis must be on monitoring and taking immediate action in the event of breaches of european law.
the author. mr president, on the day our parliament decided to discuss the situation in sudan, amnesty international published a report on the country. we can read in the text that the sudanese government forces have repeatedly used chemical weapons against civilians; we saw that my colleague corrao also referred to this fact. these are horrible acts, which we condemn most strongly. they add to other serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. i would remind you of the excessive use of force against civilians, of abductions and extrajudicial executions, of acts of sexual violence, of the closure of non-governmental organisations, of the intimidation of religious minorities. that is why our text is very tough and proposes more sanctions. omar al-bashir, who is also charged with genocide and crimes against humanity by the international criminal court, needs to know very clearly how we see the way he treats his citizens.
mr. president, the darfur region of sudan is in the midst of the world's worst humanitarian crisis. over three million people are in need of humanitarian aid, they are sick, they have no food, and most are internally displaced. in addition, the government of sudan has used chemical weapons to kill people - over 200 people in 2016 alone - and most of those are children. we all know that the use of chemical weapons is a war crime. according to amnesty international, there were over 300 chemical weapons attacks in 2016 alone, the latest on september 9, 2016. in addition, human rights activists are being imprisoned, representatives of the christian church in sudan are being imprisoned, and all of this makes the darfur region of sudan and sudan a virtual dictatorship and an area where people are starving, dying from chemical weapons attacks. i urgently demand the cessation of criminal attacks and the release of those imprisoned for political reasons.
in writing. ‒ i fully support reform of accounting standards in the interests of better accountability and transparency. the new standards should promote financial stability, sustainable growth, and long-term investment.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) was set up on 1 april 2001 and is responsible for developing international financial reporting standards (ifrs). ifrs 9, promulgated by the iasb, addresses three main topics: classification and measurement of financial instruments, impairments of financial assets and hedge accounting. i voted against this motion for a resolution regarding the ifrs 9.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis brought the role played by international financial reporting standards onto the g20 and eu agendas. it has already been decided that starting with the 1st of january 2018, a new financial instrument, ifrs 9 will replace ias 39. i agree that ifrs 9 is an improvement to ias 39 insofar as the move from an ‘incurred loss’ to an ‘expected loss’ impairment model addresses the problem of ‘too little, too late’ in the loan loss recognition procedure. however, on the matter of the banking sector, especially the accounting process, ifrs 9 is highly debatable and there is a lack of consensus in the opinion of experts. therefore, i support this report, as i believe that the iasb and the efrag should strengthen their impact analysis capacity in order to get a better understanding of the ifrs 9 in certain areas, notably in the field of macroeconomics.
in writing. ‒ the situation in aleppo is dramatic. in spite of the agreement of the 9 september on the cessation of hostilities, the assad regime, supported by russia are continuing to deliberately target civilians, a humanitarian convoy last week, doctors and hospitals. the water supply have also been cut off. those actions must be strongly condemned, as they are an unacceptable breach of international humanitarian law and could be qualified as war crimes. i would therefore like to express my deepest concern for the human suffering in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout syria, including many women and children, who do not have access to essential humanitarian goods and desperately need food, clean water and medical supplies. i support the call on the hr/vp federica mogherini, on the international community and the on the united nations to use all necessary diplomatic instruments and pressure to end the indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilians and for the cessation of hostilities to be implemented, respected and prolonged in order to allow full humanitarian access to the besieged areas.
in writing. ‒ hostilities in syria must come to a stop. another ceasefire needs to be put into place. however, in order for this solution to work, dialogue must occur with all the political parties involved. re-launching political negotiations is paramount!
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution, which condemns all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure in syria. the need for humanitarian access to the syrian people is of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution which categorically condemns all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of the siege in syria and the blocking of humanitarian access to syrians in need of assistance. it is unacceptable to remain silent about the human suffering in the besieged areas of aleppo and across the country, which affects many women and children, who lack access to essential humanitarian goods and who are in desperate need of food, drinking water and medical services or medicines. this slaughter must be stopped, and the international community must engage in serious negotiations with the assad regime and russia to stop the atrocities against civilians in aleppo.
in writing. ‒ the dramatic situation in syria continues to be of concern to the international community and the european institutions. the way in which the various factions involved in the internal military conflict and supported by certain international actors fail to respect ceasefire agreements negotiated at the highest level is deplorable. the result is an increasing number of civilian casualties and refugees, especially in the context of the siege of aleppo by government troops and the shelling of humanitarian convoys. instead of a joint offensive against the islamic state and other terrorist groups, russian and iranian-backed government troops and us-backed rebels are choosing to confront each other to the detriment of any peaceful solution. the european union, as an international actor neighbouring this conflict zone, condemns the violation of international humanitarian law and urges the parties to the conflict to cease hostilities as soon as possible and to work towards a sustainable future for the syrian state, in line with un security council resolution 2254. in this context, the co-chairs of the international syria support group, the united states and russia, have an important responsibility for the resumption of negotiations. i support the adoption of these resolutions.
mr president, the european union is the global leader in combating climate change. at the paris conference we committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990. what message are we sending to the people, to the politicians, to the investors, to the society? that we have no time to lose, history is not waiting for us, and let's get off the train because the train has already left, let's get off the train that leads, whether we like it or not, to a low-carbon economy. only then can we begin a process of reindustrialization for the 21st century. i want to make it clear that i am not in favour of introducing a tax on all financial transactions to finance climate change and here i voted against this paragraph. we have to be creative and find other sources of funding.
in writing. ‒ given that tackling climate change is a global priority, ensuring energy security, sustainable economic growth and sustainable job creation, i believe it is important to adopt a holistic and systemic approach to the development and implementation of policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand, and on the other hand i believe that research and innovation in the context of climate change policies and adaptations, as well as low-emission and resource-efficient technologies, are fundamental to tackling climate change in a cost-effective way, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and promoting the use of secondary raw materials.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution which concerns the need and urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement before the cop 22 in marrakesh.
in writing. ‒ human activities represent the main cause for global warming, with widespread and substantial change occurring in natural and human systems all over the world. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that urges countries to reduce their greenhouse gases, which are the main cause of the greenhouse effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un conference on climate change in marrakesh, morocco (cop 22). as a member of the delegation to cop22 and as shadow rapporteur for the cop22 resolution in the itre commission, i stress that we must ensure energy security, sustainable economic growth and sustainable job creation alongside the fight against climate change. climate investments require a stable and predictable legal framework as well as clear policy signals. until a level playing field is achieved, the eu should maintain appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the competitiveness of its industries and to prevent, where appropriate, carbon leakage, taking into account the need for coherence between energy, industry and climate policies. a more ambitious target for energy efficiency in the european union can contribute to achieving an ambitious climate target, and at the same time reduce the risk of carbon leakage. i also stress the need to prevent and alleviate energy poverty in order to protect and help vulnerable and poor households.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution and i am in favour of a rapid ratification of the paris agreement by all parties. it is critical for the environment, and for the european industries working hard to reduce their emissions, that there is a global framework in place. a binding agreement which includes all major emitters should reduce unfair competition for european producers and help limit temperature increases to less than 2° above pre-industrial levels. failure to reach this 2° target would be likely to cause significant environmental, economic and social pressures in the medium and long term.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the paris agreement was a watershed moment in the international community's fight against climate change. its implementation will determine how our children will live in the decades to come. the european union and its member states were among the main supporters of the adoption of the agreement, which has 187 signatory parties and is a balanced, ambitious and fair document. the setting of a global average temperature increase ceiling of 1,5 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels is an important commitment of the signatory states. in the context of the 2016 un conference on climate change (cop22) in marrakesh, the current resolution draws attention to the need for eu member states to ratify and implement the paris agreement without delay, assesses the state of implementation of the kyoto protocol, highlights the role of non-state actors in reducing emissions, the importance of climate finance and diplomatic dialogue with other international actors. the importance of adapting industrial production, energy policies, research, innovation and digital technologies, and support for developing countries in this area is also mentioned. i support the adoption of this resolution, which is so relevant to achieving the targets of stopping climate warming in the next period.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there needs to be more effective cooperation and coordination between member states and the commission on the rapid alert system for food and feed in order to be able to address public health risks quickly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe it is important for consumers to be protected by only allowing products that do not affect their health to be placed on the internal market. food is one of the main routes of human exposure to chemicals through the materials with which it comes into contact. in the current context, it is important to guarantee a high level of consumer protection in order to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market for mcas. better harmonisation at eu level, the development of uniform safety standards and better coordination in terms of risk assessment, traceability, enforcement and compliance checks on compliance with the legislation in force are needed. as regards the marketing of mca materials in the eu, the criteria for documentation and official registration of business activity need to be facilitated in order to avoid gaps in risk assessment. i consider this report to be an important step towards achieving very important objectives such as guaranteeing and protecting human health in the eu, ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market and facilitating the implementation of legislation.
in writing. ‒ it is of great importance for the current eu legislation regarding food contact materials to be revised and updated in order to provide for a paramount need of eu citizens, health protection.
in writing. ‒ before its consumption, food comes into contact with many materials during its production, processing, storage, preparation and serving. these materials are known as food contact materials (fcms). i have voted in favour of this report that will set out general safety requirements applicable to all fcms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights many of the concerns related to food contact materials. i particularly support the emphasis on safer alternatives to endocrine disrupting chemicals. once again, i urge the european commission to provide the necessary support to reduce and prevent our exposure to the potentially harmful effects of endocrine disruptors. whilst human health is the overriding priority, this report also contains constructive approaches for reducing costs to industry. savings could be passed on to consumers if eu-wide standards replaced the current patchwork of varied rules and different standards.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the guarantor of the protection of the health of the citizens of the member states and of the marketing of products that meet food safety standards. food contact materials (fcms), including food packaging, kitchenware, utensils, must have an appropriate chemical composition to avoid the transfer of harmful substances into food. to this end, the eu adopted in 2004 regulation no 1935 to ensure the safe management of plastic, ceramic, cellulose or smart material compounds in accordance with the relevant studies. for the rest of the cmos, standards are set at national level, which creates real difficulties at community level, especially on the free movement of goods. in order to harmonise these standards, this resolution proposes a common approach to the recycling and use process, in line with the concept of the circular economy, more complex joint tests at european level to avoid endocrine disruptors, in-depth research on nanomaterials, the revision of the regulation on ceramic products and more rigorous controls. it is a resolution aimed at eliminating the health risks of the mcas, which is why i support its adoption.
mr president, the responsibility for the correct application of union law, which means union legislation, directives, regulations and the union treaty, is shared between the member states and the commission. the commission is the guarantor, the guardian of the treaties, and it must take on this role more firmly. in 2014, the commission received around four thousand complaints for potential breaches of union law and launched around nine hundred new procedures for the non-application of union law by member states in the fields of environment, health, consumer protection, internal market and so on. what do i want to emphasize now? two things: 1) member states must transpose union legislation in a timely and correct manner, they must do so by clear laws and not by complicated ones because things only work with clear laws; 2) we here in parliament should stop stumbling into complicated resolutions and statements with plus, and, especially, if that people don't understand, but adopt clear laws.
in writing. ‒ given that the main responsibility for the implementation and correct application of eu law lies with the member states, but also taking into account the important role of social partners, civil society organisations and other stakeholders in the development of legislation and in monitoring and reporting on shortcomings in the transposition and application of eu law by member states, i believe that existing eu legislation should be supplemented where there are gaps or interpretation issues that bring more accessibility, clarity and consistency in the interpretation of existing rules, for the benefit of citizens and businesses, as well as the administration and its officials.
in writing. ‒ i voted to draw commissioner jurova's attention to the fact that there is no need for over-regulation, but for better monitoring of the way european regulations are applied, such as, for example, respecting the waiting time for the response to complaints. considers it important to monitor and have the right to information on the effective implementation and practical application of eu law. the report shows that areas such as the environment, transport, the internal market and services continue to be emerging policy areas, mostly due to the failure to meet commitments in 2014. the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years and this reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. i believe that the european parliament could and should play a more structured role in analysing how candidate countries and countries with association agreements with the european union comply with eu law and in providing appropriate assistance to those countries in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the number of formal infringement procedures in 2014 decreased due to the effectiveness of the eu pilot procedure. this is great news, but much remains to be done. one deplorable fact is that parliament still has only limited access to vital information and thus cannot play the role of ‘monitoring the monitor’ efficiently and effectively.
in writing. ‒ in response to the request from the european parliament and member states, the commission draws up an annual report regarding the monitoring of the application of eu law. i have voted in favour of this report, which states that the environment, transport and the internal market and services were the policy areas with the most infringement cases in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on monitoring the application of union law: annual report 2014. the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making contains provisions aimed at improving the implementation and application of eu law and encouraging more structured cooperation in this regard. we support the call in the agreement for better identification of national measures that are not strictly linked to union law (a practice known as 'super-regulation'). we stress the importance of enhanced transposition and the need for member states to notify and clearly indicate national measures supplementing the provisions of union directives. when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary burdens to eu legislation, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and increases unjustified scepticism towards the eu among citizens. we would point out, however, that this in no way affects the prerogatives of member states to adopt, at national level, stricter social and environmental standards than those agreed at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s 32nd ‘annual report on monitoring the application of eu law’ shows that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years, although environment, transport and internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. according to the commission, the decrease in infringement procedures reflects the effectiveness of their dialogue with member states. however, the european parliament has little access to this type of information, and it is difficult for us to evaluate to what extent this reduction is due to a more effective dialogue with member states. consequently, i support this report as i strongly believe that the european parliament could play a more prominent role in the analysis of how accession countries comply with eu law. furthermore, i agree with the rapporteur`s conclusion that the enforcement of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and i believe that measures should be taken to increase transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize bt11 seeds following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize 1507 seeds following a risk evaluation for human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize mon 810 products following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ studies on genetically modified maize mon 810 have shown that it contains the cry1 ab protein, known for its property of protecting against pests represented by certain lepidopteran insects. its use in the eu can thus protect plantations from insects such as the european hornet ostrinia nubiladis and the pink hornet sesamia spp., which threaten maize plantations throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained in voting this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me first thank you for introducing this very important topic of sustainable finance. vice-president dombrovskis and i are jointly responsible for the capital markets union and this obviously has a close link to the sustainable finance issue. last year we witnessed some landmark international agreements with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdg) and the paris climate agreement (cop21). implementing a transition towards a more sustainable world requires determined efforts in many policy areas. in terms of public finance, the eu is leading the way due to its commitment to spend at least 20% of its 2014-2020 budget on climate-related projects and policies. work is ongoing to increase the availability of green funds through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). but we need to move beyond public finance and to further reach out to private investors. the financial sector has a role to play. the capital markets union initiative addresses the importance of long-term and sustainable investments. in the most recent cmu communication, the commission has indicated a need for a broader strategy on sustainable finance. this is necessary to support investment in clean technologies and ensure that the financial system can finance growth in a sustainable manner over the long term. the commission also monitors developments in the green bond market. a study on the potential of the bond market to finance resource-efficient investments is under preparation. the final report will be ready in november. the commission has also adopted initiatives to increase company transparency, such as the directive on non-financial reporting that will be transposed by the end of 2016, and the related non-binding guidelines, currently under preparation. last july, a political agreement on iorp2 was achieved that will require occupational pension funds to consider taking into account environmental, social and governance factors in their investment decisions. the commission is also assessing the follow-up to the recent public consultation on long-term and sustainable investment which emphasised the importance of environmental, social and governance issues for the long-term performance of companies and investors, and the challenges institutional investors faced in this area. since sustainable finance has no boundaries, work must also be done at global level. the commission supports the work of the fsb industry-led task force which will provide recommendations on climate-related financial disclosures early next year. we will take these into account as much as possible when preparing the upcoming eu guidelines on non-financial reporting. at the same time, the commission is a member of the g20 green finance study group (gfsg), which recently identified options on how to mobilise private green investment; we will also continue this work under the german presidency. beyond relying on public finance and mobilising the private sector, the commission is also looking at how, and to what extent, climate change implications could affect the financial sector or even be a source of systemic risk to it. some eu institutions and central banks of eu member states have already begun analysing this. last february, the european systemic risk board proposed enhanced disclosures and the incorporation of climate-related prudential risks into stress tests as policy responses to mitigate risks for the financial system. this may be a suitable trigger to integrate considerations about long-term environmental risks and opportunities into the mindset of private investors. undoubtedly more needs to be done at eu level, and in a comprehensive manner. that is why the commission will establish an expert group on green finance that will help formulate the eu strategy. this group will provide advice on how to mobilise private capital for sustainable and green investments; and to better understand and deal with the financial risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy. the expert group will be composed of senior experts representing various stakeholders of the green and sustainable finance spectrum. honourable members, i am interested to hear your views on the ongoing work streams and also i am expecting some input from your side for future work streams.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, there is no doubt that we are all experiencing the effects of climate change and no country is immune from these effects. even in a country like my country, which is far from oceans, we have climate change that simply cannot be explained. therefore, all efforts that are made to mobilise the financing needed to change the structure of economies from economies that are very fuel-intensive and generate greenhouse gas emissions to economies that substantially reduce these greenhouse gas emissions are welcome. i would like to draw attention to a number of initiatives that the european commission has in this area, as mentioned by mr katainen, vice-president of the european commission. indeed, there is a fundamental question that we have to answer: how do we bring private capital into this financing? we know very well: private capital will not enter this financing unless it also sees a favorable return for investors. that is why our efforts to achieve the single market for capital in the european union and other efforts are welcome. let's not forget that there was a commitment, made many years ago, by all the countries in the world, to make a fund of about a hundred billion dollars to finance the transition to an economy that responds to the challenges of climate change, and basically, not much of that commitment was realized at that time by the countries. within the european union, we have a lot of funds that can be used from both the european union budget and from the resources of the member states, which can be used to encourage this transition to a green energy economy. but i would like to mention here that the populations, the population, the citizens, have had a negative reaction to certain incentive schemes that we have devised, especially for those who invested in green energy (wind and so on), where they simply created incentives that were much too high for what was normal. so i think we need to be very clear here, to think about what the optimal incentive size should be for those who invest in green energy.
madam president, i am not in favour of unnecessary legislation being adopted by the eu. i am in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, but i must say that in this case i am convinced that the adoption of legislation makes sense. as soon as we have a single customs territory, a single customs legislation, a single customs code, it seems logical to me that there should also be a single set of sanctions that will apply throughout the eu. in short, the penalty for a particular offence should be the same throughout the eu, if possible. it's a fundamental principle of the rule of law. a similar offense is to be punished by a similar penalty. so that is why i support the amendment, why i agree with the idea, although i am generally reluctant to accept new european legislation. if we look at the actual implementation, i have to say that the proposal put forward by the commission is unfortunately not very good and here, like my predecessors, i commend the work of the rapporteur of the imco committee in particular, who in my view has succeeded in removing a number of the legal problems of the legislation. i agree with the text that came out of the imco committee. one thing at least: the penalty is to be imposed for wrongdoing, the objective liability which was in the commission's original proposal is, in my view, absolutely unacceptable and has seriously harmed the entrepreneurs. so perhaps, commissioner, in the future, we should have better legislation than you propose here.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the position of the colleagues who have spoken. i do not think we can speak of a customs union either when we have fully harmonised legislation throughout the european union, but the enforcement and, indeed, the verification of compliance with customs rules and the imposition of sanctions is a matter for each individual state. and we now know concretely that we have differences -- and big differences, not very small. this, in my view, disadvantages primarily small, small and medium-sized enterprises. the same formalities, the same documents, the same steps are to be followed by the economic operator, but when he passes through one customs office or another, the sanction is different if things go wrong at a control. i therefore support the principle of taking action to bring about a certain level of alignment in the 28 member states, because that is why we have a single market, to have national procedures, of course, but to have harmonised levels of sanctions for customs infringements. i believe that this provides legal certainty for businesses and could create a more level playing field, which would encourage businesses, especially smes, to invest in all member states and stimulate economic growth. i have personally tabled amendments and i hope that this report will be voted on and that we will take steps, because i do not think that we will end the customs union with this report alone. and i also think, at the same time, that the member states must, and it is also the role of the commission, to adopt greater transparency and see better enforcement of customs legislation. finally, we must all move towards measures that also improve the compliance of companies with customs legislation, but not encourage the crossing of certain borders just because the penalties are lower. i support the report and congratulate mrs callas.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, a year ago i was very glad to see a breakthrough in the iranian nuclear deal. the eu played an important role in this success. i trust the deal can be beneficial for all parties involved. this is significant progress for the security, stability and development of the entire region, but it still remains extremely important for it to be implemented thoroughly and in good faith by all partners as soon as possible. we should not forget that this deal goes beyond its technical details. it has already been celebrated by the iranian people, who consider that this could represent a step forward in improving their living standards. it is essential for both sides to deliver on that. only a successful implementation will allow us to show the benefits of multilateral diplomacy over the policy of obstructionism and confrontation. one of our main worries is the fact that, in spite of the partial lifting of sanctions, eu companies are still facing great difficulty in accessing the iranian market. this is mostly due to the fact that many american financial sanctions are still in place and have an extraterritorial impact. as far as i am aware of them, i share some of the concerns of my colleagues towards iran, notably the ones linked to the use of ballistic missiles and human rights abuses and violations, including the use of the death penalty in iran. it is important to use all channels, in cooperation with the united states, to find and address at least a temporary solution to the difficulties faced by our companies. it is important to engage iran in order to work together towards improving the environment for human rights and equally to win more regional stability and prosperity. having said this, i will conclude with an important call on iran to stop its interference in other countries in the region and to refrain from supporting armed groups, in particular its support for the syrian regime, hamas, al-nusra and hezbollah, and to play a more positive and constructive role in bringing back peace to the middle east.
madam president, the first version of richard howitt's report seemed to have been written to please tehran, and i had criticised the pro-shiite bias of the socialist rapporteur. many of us also felt that the report was not sufficiently incisive, particularly on the issue of human rights. the text from the committee on foreign affairs before us is more balanced and i would like to thank our rapporteur from the epp group, elmar brok, for his efforts to refine the report. i am particularly pleased to note that a number of my amendments have been taken into account, particularly those aimed at giving more clarity to issues such as the consideration of the european union's guidelines on human rights in its relations with iran and the death penalty. the death penalty was considered in the first version of this report as a simple matter of difference between us and iran. as we know, this is a matter of fundamental principle for the union. the report has been improved, but i would have liked to see a very strong condemnation of iran's repeated calls for the destruction of israel, a clear condemnation of its denial of the holocaust, a clear condemnation of tehran's support for the regime of bashar al-assad and the necessary dimension of the human rights criteria which seem taboo for the moment to richard howitt.
mr president, i too welcome the nuclear agreement with iran and agree that the economic relationship with iran is very important and european investment is crucial to unlocking its economic potential. as we know, economic cooperation is the fastest way to generate positive change in a society and is indeed an open door to improving the situation of human rights and respect for international law, especially as we are talking about iran, a state ruled by a totalitarian regime. clear economic measures, a transparent economy, anti-corruption and the guarantee of civil rights and freedoms are absolutely necessary. at the same time, an exclusively economic approach to the relationship with iran, as this report now reflects, is counterproductive in the long term and unrealistic. the report ignores abuses and overlooks flagrant human rights violations. this approach i believe is a disservice to the iranian people, but also to the long-term relationship between us and iran. as a member of the european parliament and a european, i do not want double standards to become a constant in our policy both inside and outside the union. the totalitarian regime in iran refuses to acknowledge its mistakes and to implement real reforms, raising many questions about the future of the relationship between iran and the european union. the aggressive rhetoric of tehran, especially in relation to israel, and its support for terrorist organisations do not provide international partners with the necessary guarantees on such a sensitive issue as nuclear. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – the latest events show that the relationship between the eu and iran has reached a detente. iran is the second-largest economy in the middle east with an estimated nominal gdp of 397 billion usd in 2015. eu trade with iran currently stands at usd 8 billion and is expected to quadruple in the next two years. half of iranian households’ energy needs are met by natural gas. iran has on average 300 days of sunshine per year; we need to take into consideration the potential of developing renewable energies in iran. iran’s ratification of the rights of the child prohibits child executions and iran must ensure that that child execution, arbitrary and political executions stop. i also believe that joining the extractive transparency initiative is an effective measure. eu relationships with iran must come with shared values on people’s rights, with freedom for those politically detained, with real justice for the dead and with stopping the dictatorship. any dictatorship based on fear and injustice is meant to fail. my call to the iranian leadership is to stop the abuses and the imprisonment of the political opponents and to build a society based on freedom. only free people can take a country forward.
in writing. the report on the state of infrastructure and connectivity in central and eastern europe is an important step towards improving the transport system at european level, recognising that there is a significant gap between the east and west of the continent. this is a wake-up call to the effects of these development differences on the economy of the union as a whole and on the future of cohesion policies. representing half of europe, the countries of the east need the technical and financial support of the european executive to facilitate the implementation of infrastructure plans. the commission must therefore come up with a clear strategy for central and eastern europe that integrates the major infrastructure plans, taking into account both regional discrepancies and the need for better cooperation between national authorities and the institutions in brussels. the european parliament expresses its support for such a strategy and recommends the creation of a budget line for eastern european infrastructure and administrative capacity building. at the same time, the appropriate use of the structural and cohesion funds is necessary. given their poor absorption, i call for countries like romania to receive technical assistance for project development and use of financial instruments.
mr president orphans aren't the only ones who can be orphans. when a child's physical, mental, spiritual, physical integrity is threatened, that child is an orphan. in that case, he needs the help of a civil or governmental organization. every child has the right to grow up in circumstances similar to those of his peers said father böjte csaba, head of the st. francis de sales foundation, at the conference i organised in the european parliament in brussels on good practices in child protection and social services. although the functioning of the social system is a competence of the member states, good european practices must be adopted urgently in romania, as they can help to solve the problems faced by hungarian civil and religious organisations in transylvania. the state should help, not hinder, their noble activities.
thank you, mr. president, in 1921 the ioan cantacuzino institute of serums and vaccines was established in bucharest, a scientific centre that played an extremely important role in the health of romanians. dozens of generations have been given immunity to diseases through vaccines prepared at the cantacuzino institute, known and appreciated worldwide. at the european union level, the cantacuzino institute is part of the strategic network upon which europe's rapid response to a widespread epidemic or a biological weapons attack depends. dear colleagues, after 95 years, the cantacuzino institute is dying, caused by poor management, lack of interest of the current government and the interests of real estate businesses. i raise the issue before you because a solution must be found against a foreseeable disaster that, in the event of a continental pandemic, can put both romanians and other europeans in a hopeless situation. i feel that i would not properly honor my profession as a doctor, but also the medical specialists who work in cantacuzino, if i overlooked the disaster of the dissolution of the cantacuzino institute. this event must be stopped, to prevent disastrous consequences in the future and please support me in my effort to explain to the current government the consequences of this bankruptcy.
thank you, mr president, honourable members, allow me to start by congratulating the european parliament on the success of one of the best schools in romania at last week's eu code week 2016. it's about the emanuil gojdu national college in oradea, of which i am also a graduate. in one week, almost all the students of this high school, over a thousand in number, participated in the coding activities organized by the computer science department. congratulations, dear students, congratulations, dear teachers, and thank you for your work. code week 2016 is a european-wide action taking place this year from 15 to 23 october. it promotes the importance of developing digital skills and coding knowledge at any age. we all know already that digital skills will eventually become mandatory for anyone who wants to successfully integrate into the labour market. but along with the 21st century skills needed, such as entrepreneurship, analytical thinking, or creativity, coding skills represent a new literacy. i ask all my fellow members and other european politicians to wholeheartedly encourage such initiatives.
thank you, mr president. in 2019, romania will hold the presidency of the council of the european union. this is an important moment, because for a while, my country will be able to set the european agenda. in the light of the growing interest in the future of the republic of moldova, i reiterate my hope that 2019 will be the year when accession negotiations with the european union will begin. these are not just intentions, but goals that can be achieved with a lot of effort and hard work by the government and society of the republic of moldova. that is why i am glad that the social democratic party has proposed for the first place for the chamber of deputies in the parliamentary elections to be held in december a young dentist from the republic of moldova, coordinator of the pes activists diaspora, mr. veaceslav şaramet. through positive examples, through firm pro-european actions, we can make the lives of the citizens of romania and the republic of moldova better, and the ties that unite us closer than ever and, why not, in the european union. (applause) thank you very much.
madam president, please. the eu pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights would provide for an integrated control mechanism covering all member states and the three main institutions. such a mechanism would be unnecessary, as the member states undertook to guarantee fundamental human rights, including the rights of minorities, during the accession negotiations. however, experience shows that there has been a serious downward adjustment in this area since accession. monitoring reports from the council of europe and, where appropriate, adverse judgments by the european court of human rights have no systemic consequences. the union, for fear of the reactions of the member states, did not address these very obvious violations at all. we hope that this mechanism will usher in a new era, based on the principle that eu citizens have the same fundamental rights throughout the eu.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i want to say from the outset that i support the report and the pact for democracy. we all say that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law. member states should lead by example. but what do we do, commissioner, when officials in some countries accept discrimination by violating the rights of citizens, for example, in the movement of workers, by stigmatising the less developed countries? what are we to do, commissioner, with a member state such as the netherlands, your country of origin, which has for years opposed the entry of romania, bulgaria and croatia into the schengen area, for political reasons, not technical ones, discriminating against citizens of countries excluded from the schengen area? the same applies to the cvm for romania and bulgaria. you asked for answers to some of the proposals in the report, commissioner. i answer that yes, you must have a report, you, the commission, an annual report to the european parliament. we represent the citizens, we were elected to represent them, you were appointed to make the european union an internal market that defends the rights of citizens in all respects. that is what the citizens of my country expect, and that is why i am agreeing to this report, as a first step, and we will continue.
thank you. thank you. i would like us all to take responsibility for the security of our citizens and the security of the european union. the terrorist attacks will not stop, they will intensify. it was said here that the pnr is not applied by the member states. i would remind you that in this parliament i kept the pnr, not myself, but my colleagues for three years before we adopted it. of course, the member states didn't just stand by and do bilateral relations between them and give each other this passenger data. so that's not an argument. let us pass legislation and do our own work, even if a member state does not do its work, because we will be responsible for it. security commissioner julian king, who is here, and i'm glad of that, warned of the risk that isil fighters would head towards europe in their attack, in the context of the battle for mosul. finally, i would like to insist on the adoption this year of the schengen amending regulation by strengthening the borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark because i believe that an automatic data exchange is necessary to avoid the bureaucracy that currently exists in making exchanges, but especially to reduce the exchange time. article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, and article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, and, not least, the council decision, provide for the strengthening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of counter-terrorism and criminal justice. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs shall inform parliament of its intentions if it departs from the text as approved or if it intends to make substantial changes to the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic (fingerprint) data under the prüm treaty. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, and the commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the initiative authorises denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching and comparison of dna data under the prüm treaty, which establishes a legal framework to further develop cooperation among member states in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal immigration. denmark has fulfilled all the data protection provisions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report concerning the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna in denmark that will improve cross-border law enforcement cooperation in combating terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the schengen convention ensures the application of the principle of free movement at the level of the european union, including as regards nationals of the member states. however, the application of the convention's provisions on the movement of persons, namely nationals of third countries, may pose a number of problems in ensuring european security. preventive measures, including the exchange of personal dna data between member states, are required. the application of that measure must, however, respect the rights and freedoms of citizens which are at the heart of the european project. the inclusion of denmark among the member states that have adopted these measures is likely to contribute to the strengthening of european security, especially after the successful implementation of the pilot project on data protection. i consider the adoption of the current document to be a step forward in strengthening the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ article 39 (1) of the treaty on european union, as it has been laid down for the commission in its current form after the amendment made by the treaty of amsterdam, and article 9 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, but not least the council decision, provide for the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and criminal justice. the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs shall inform parliament of its intentions if it departs from the text as approved or if it intends to make substantial changes to the commission proposal. i voted in favour of the report on the automated exchange of data on dactyloscopic data in denmark because i believe that an automatic exchange of this data is necessary to avoid red tape in the exchange process, but especially to reduce the exchange time.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic (fingerprint) data under the prüm treaty. denmark has run a successful pilot project and fulfilled all the data protection provisions, commission has evaluated the results and found denmark ready to take part in prüm. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the initiative authorises denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic (fingerprint) data under the prüm treaty, which establishes a legal framework to further develop cooperation among member states in combating terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal immigration. denmark has fulfilled all the data protection provisions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report concerning the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic in denmark that will improve cross-border law enforcement cooperation in combating terrorism.
in writing. the adoption of the schengen convention is one of the main achievements of the european integration process. ensuring free movement at european union level, including for nationals of the member states, is a sure win. however, the application of the convention's provisions on the movement of persons, including third-country nationals, may pose a number of problems in ensuring european security. it is therefore necessary to take preventive measures, including fingerprinting and the exchange of such data between member states. the application of that measure must respect the rights and freedoms of citizens which are at the heart of the european construction. the admission of denmark to the member states which have adopted these measures is likely to contribute to strengthening european security by including this nordic country among the parties to the prüm convention. for these reasons, i consider that the adoption of the present document is necessary and constitutes a step forward in strengthening european security as a whole.
in writing. ‒ according to council regulation no 539/2001, china is one of the third countries whose nationals are required to hold a visa when travelling to the schengen area. the same rule applies to eu citizens wishing to enter chinese territory. the eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility also provides the framework for third parties to exchange good practices and opportunities for cooperation on issues of common interest. pursuant to the council decision of 14 september 2015, the commission is authorised to negotiate an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for diplomatic persons, so that this agreement leads to progress towards the establishment of a total reciprocal visa waiver for all holders of ordinary passports. i voted in favour of the report on the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports as it will considerably reduce both the time taken to obtain a visa and the costs of travel.
in writing. ‒ china is among the countries whose citizens must obtain a visa when travelling to the schengen area. the commission has also examined whether the measures in force against the prc constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. this agreement establishes the possibility of visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu free passage permit, as well as for citizens of china holding a diplomatic passport. i voted for this report, which can become a first step towards free movement between china and the eu. this visa abolition will lead to a reduction in waiting time in front of consulates as well as a reduction in travel costs.
in writing. ‒ the significance of visa liberalisation is considerable as it brings tangible benefits. the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports represents a step forward in the establishment of full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. the significance of visa liberalisation is considerable as it brings tangible benefits. the abolishment of visas will reduce the waiting time in front of consulates and the costs associated with the travelling. it will facilitate people-to-people contact – an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties as well as it will intensify contacts between people. of course, visa liberalisation should go hand-in-hand with improvements in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports represents an important first step in the establishment of full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. i believe that the significance of visa liberalisation is considerable as it brings substantial benefits.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report that will provide visa-free travel for both citizens of the eu and china holding a diplomatic passport when travelling to each other’s territory for a period of maximum 90 days during any 180 day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the substantive negotiations between the european commission and the people's republic of china on the waiver of the short-stay visa requirement for holders of diplomatic passports or eu free-travel permits. i consider it a very important step forward for eu-prc relations and hope that it will be followed by negotiations on improving respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and negotiations on the possibility of a complete visa waiver. i also support the rapporteur's position on the importance of transparency in these negotiations in the future and the inclusion of the european parliament in these discussions, in order to ensure good collaboration and cooperation between the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the european union's relations with the people's republic of china have been developing steadily over the past decades in all areas. despite this, citizens of both parties still need visas when travelling in the territory of the other. in order to address this obstacle, a dialogue on mobility with a view to mutual visa waiver was opened in october 2013. two years later, the council authorised the commission to negotiate an agreement on the abolition of short-stay visas for holders of diplomatic passports. this step follows the intensification of good relations between the diplomatic bodies of the two sides and is likely to contribute to an in-depth dialogue on areas of cooperation. the european parliament, as the direct representative of the european citizens, is called upon to give its consent to this agreement. the implementation of this measure is only a step towards the total abolition of visas for the nationals of the two parties, when the concrete conditions allow it. the visa waiver will directly contribute to the increase of direct contacts between the citizens of the two parties and to the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other relations. it is a health measure, which i support wholeheartedly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the eu-china agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu free passage permit, as well as for chinese citizens holding a diplomatic passport, when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint statement on the interpretation of this 90-day period during any 180-day period is attached to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ even though it has been several years since the economic crisis that affected all the states of the world, it still puts pressure on national economies. eu member states are forced to take austerity measures to balance their budgets, and the implementation of the european structural and investment funds is necessary. these funds are needed as national budgets are under pressure and countries are struggling to find sufficient funds to co-finance regional policy projects. the change in the amount of payments could be very beneficial for states experiencing economic difficulties, which involves a temporary increase in payment appropriations. i voted in favour of the report on certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability because i believe that the eu needs to come to the aid of all member states experiencing financial instability, which is beneficial first of all for the states that need these credits, but not least it is beneficial for the eu.
in writing. ‒ after this period of financial and economic crisis in which member states have taken austerity measures to balance their budgets, the eu needs to implement its main funding instrument: the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) to help them in regional policy. in addition to romania, four other member states (ireland, portugal, cyprus and greece) were eligible for an increase of the payment under article 24 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. romania, ireland, portugal and cyprus have completed their economic adjustment programmes. of these, only greece is still subject to an adjustment programme and is receiving related financial assistance until the third quarter of 2018. in view of the fact that greece continues to face serious difficulties with respect to its financial stability, the period of application of an increase in the amount of payments for member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties should be extended. i therefore support the commission's proposal without amendments under an accelerated procedure.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis is putting pressure on national economies and member states have taken austerity measures to balance their budgets, leading to budgetary difficulties in finding enough funds to co-finance regional policy projects. countries such as greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for additional payments in the period from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016. greece is the only country where a financial assistance programme is currently being applied, the others being beyond the period of application. i voted to change the period in which a country receiving financial assistance is eligible for additional payments. this could lead to an increase in administrative capacity to achieve a higher absorption of funds.
in writing. ‒ the recent financial and economic crisis puts pressure on national economies. national budgets are under strain. consequently, in many member states, investments by the european structural and investment funds are the main or sole source of investment. however, for countries experiencing budgetary deficits, it might be difficult to find funds for the national co-financing of cohesion policy projects. articles 24 and 120(3) of the common provisions regulation (cpr) intend to help member states receiving financial assistance and experiencing budgetary deficits. article 24 allows for so-called ‘top-ups’ – increased payments under esif. currently, only greece has a financial assistance programme in place under article 24 of the cpr. given the fragile economic state of greece, the commission proposed the continuation of top-up provisions which would otherwise have stopped if the commission had not come forward with a legislative proposal before the end of the accounting year (30 june 2016). after a review, the commission had to come up with a proposal for a possible extension of co-financement rate for cyprus before 30 june 2016. the legislative proposal foresees the extension of 85% of co-financement until the end of 2014-2020 financial period. i supported the proposal in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis continues to put pressure on national economies. under this pressure, countries face difficulties in accessing european structural and investment funds. if the funds are not absorbed, member states may receive additional financial assistance. the commission shall carry out an assessment and, if the economic situation in the countries concerned so warrants, the financial assistance shall be extended. greece, cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal were eligible for extended financial assistance during the period from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016. financial assistance for all these countries, except greece, has expired. i support this report containing the commission's proposal because it proposes to change the duration of a country's eligibility for additional payments. the commission also proposes that member states continue to be eligible until 30 june of the year following the calendar year in which they cease to receive financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ articles 24 and 120(3) of the common provisions regulation (cpr) were designed, following the financial and economic crisis that has put pressure on eu member states’ economies, to offer support to help take advantage of the investment opportunities given by the european structural and investment funds during the 2014-2020 programming period. i am in favour of this report, which will extend the provisions for making increased payments under esif programmes to member states experiencing economic difficulties.
in writing. ‒ the financial and economic crisis that the eu states have been experiencing in recent years has made some of them vulnerable and has made them in need of support from the eu. for many of them, the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) are the main funding instrument. in order to ensure the greatest possible impact of these funds, the common provisions regulation (cpr) was adopted. if the economic situation in those countries persists, the additional support measures may be extended and the amount of the payments increased. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. greece is currently the only country still applying such a programme, as its economic situation is still very fragile. however, such measures would also be justified in the case of cyprus, given the economic difficulties and the drastic decrease in investments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. it's a welcome measure to manage the temporary liquidity problems of the two states. i support the adoption of this document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the financial and economic crisis is putting pressure on national economies and member states have taken austerity measures to balance their budgets. in the context of pressure on national budgets, it is important to find solutions for co-financing regional policy projects.
in writing. ‒ the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values, and cannot be justified by freedom of expression. the statements in question can in no way be construed as being linked to fulfilment of the mandate, and therefore cannot and should not be protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. freedom of speech cannot go beyond these values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ the immunity of the members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the european union treaties. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values, and cannot be justified by freedom of expression. the statements in question can in no way be construed as being linked to fulfilment of the mandate, and therefore cannot and should not be protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in accordance with the evaluation made by the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached with the council will ensure that data collected by the european railway agency (era) or by dg move can be used for statistical purposes and made easily available to the public. it was linked to the signing of an amendment to the memorandum of understanding (mou) between eurostat and the era regarding the transfer of data on rail transport safety and interoperability. an mou between eurostat and dg move to identify the main european statistics needed for the programming and implementation of eu mobility and transport policies was also signed before the agreement was reached. i supported the recommendation in plenary.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will ensure that data collected by the european railway agency or by dg move can be used for statistical purposes and made easily available to the public.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, which will enable cooperation between eurostat, the commission, and the european railway agency (era), ensuring that statistical data related to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ parliament has reached an agreement with the council ensuring that data collected by the european railway agency (era) or by dg move can be used for statistical purposes and also made available to the public. the agreement is linked to two memoranda of understanding signed by eurostat with the era and dg move.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation for the second reading on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on freight, passengers and accidents. at first reading, parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to cover infrastructure data, in particular data on the introduction of the european rail traffic management system, which was one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network - ten-t. following negotiations, the council and parliament agreed on the simplification of the regulation on rail transport statistics.
in writing. ‒ by 645 votes to 24, with 3 abstentions, parliament adopted a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway as regards conferring delegated and implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures on statistical coverage. in order to strengthen the statistical coverage of inland waterway transport, parliament stated that data collected must deal with both goods and passengers. the agreement reached with the council took on board the ep position. the transport committee fully endorsed the compromise text. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ a successful policy to increase the role of inland navigation within the transport sector should focus on reliable statistics including both goods and passenger transport. this will put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistical data are collected, both for goods and passengers. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report, which will develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway. the commission will also launch voluntary pilot studies to test the feasibility of the new data collection system. following the submission of those studies to parliament and the council, they will consider them when revising the regulation on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport because it concludes the procedure for amending the regulation in this area, while extending its application to passenger transport. the mandatory collection of data on passenger transport by inland waterway is an important step in strengthening the role of this type of transport in relation to maritime, air and road transport.
in writing. ‒ parliament overwhelmingly endorses the proposal for a regulation on statistics on goods transported by inland waterway. this will strengthen the statistical coverage of inland waterway transport, particularly if the data collected deal with both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. at first reading, parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight to include passenger transport. parliament considered that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the parliament and the council agreed to take account of passenger transport by inland waterway in the framework of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the main objectives of the proposal are to bridge the gap between different legal regimes through a common platform of rules and to enhance the level playing field between economic operators in the customs union. to this end, it includes a common list of infringements and establishes a common scale of administrative sanctions. having divergent sanctions poses problems to economic operators, to international trade relations (pressure from wto is quoted in the impact assessment), and creates uneven compliance costs and administrative burden that could make some member states more ‘attractive’ (forum shopping). i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is important to clarify the scope of the eu's customs infringements directive and the related sanctions. it is important to ensure that only infringements committed negligently or intentionally constitute infringements, which is why the definition of negligent behaviour plays a key role in this directive. as far as sanctions are concerned, it's important that we have the same sanctions in all 28 states. i think it is necessary that there is no disproportion of penalties applied to the same type of error. we must no longer allow goods to be routed indirectly only to certain border points where sanctions are lower or even non-existent. the report's proposals can ensure that businesses better comply with the european customs code and can also ensure an increase in fair competition in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ having divergent sanctions poses problems to economic operators and to international trade relations and creates administrative burdens. this report is a compromise text that aims at addressing these issues. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ one of the foundations of the european union as well as the backbone of the single market is the european customs union. i am in favour of this report that reiterates the need for an integrated approach with regard to the enforcement of customs legislation as well as the standardization of applied sanctions when the rules are infringed.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and related sanctions. i believe that ensuring the uniform application of penalties for non-compliance with customs legislation is extremely important for all eu operators, but also for the stability and predictability of markets. the discrepancies between the various member states destabilise the competitive market, giving advantages to only a few operators. this creates mistrust among member states' administrations, but also at the level of companies or small businesses, of the eu's ability to ensure fair competition. i therefore support this report, which supports the adoption of a directive to harmonise non-criminal sanctions for breaches of customs legislation.
in writing. ‒ the customs union is considered to be an essential component of the european union and the single market. however, there is currently no integrated approach to customs compliance that includes the application of penalties, as this area varies according to national legislation. since the rules of the customs union and customs policy are an exclusive competence of the union, a unified approach to customs compliance is needed to ensure a level playing field within its territory. such an approach is also in line with the eu's wto obligations to adopt convergent sanctions regimes. the commission proposal calls on member states to have effective, proportionate and dissuasive customs sanctioning systems that converge through the application of a modernised customs code and the use of electronic means. such measures would encourage trade and increased compliance, ensure penalties commensurate with the evasion of duties and distinguish between criminal and civil penalties. however, customs authorities would be the only ones able to decide on the application of extenuating or aggravating circumstances in the administration of sanctions, which raises the issue of mutual trust between member states. since this matter needs to be resolved, i support referring the report back to the committee responsible for adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the union's legal framework for customs infringements and related sanctions. the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union; therefore, the eu alone can develop a common approach to ensuring compliance with customs legislation. member states have committed themselves to endeavour in particular to achieve two objectives: to ensure that customs administrations interact and produce results as effectively as if they were a single administration, to ensure checks with equivalent results and to support legitimate commercial activities, as well as the necessary protection of the financial interests of the union. however, without an integrated approach to enforcement, including the application of sanctions, the customs administrations of the member states cannot act as a unit, especially given the major differences between the sanctioning systems of the member states, highlighted by the report of the customs sanctions project group in 2010. the european commission published on 13 december 2013 a proposal for a directive on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and related sanctions.
in writing. ‒ in the light of recent terrorist attacks, new security needs have been identified and additional financial resources are needed, even in the course of the financial year 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 therefore provides for the strengthening of the budget for security by allocating an additional total amount of eur 15,8 million to be used for security measures in various european institutions such as the european commission, the european economic and social committee, the european court of auditors. the draft amending budget also provides for the creation of 35 permanent posts to facilitate the recruitment of additional security staff in the european parliament. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 3/2016 because i consider it crucial to allocate the necessary resources to strengthen the security of the european institutions and to respond to current challenges.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget n° 3 for the year 2016 refers to new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terror attacks. it proposes to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the parliament, the commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. as far as the european parliament is concerned, the draft amending budget aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of security agents. these posts should be exempt from the 5% staff reduction target, as they correspond to a new activity. i am in favour of draft amending budget 3/2016.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of draft amending budget 3/2016, which refers to new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terror attacks.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because we need more security for european citizens and for all people in europe. (a) member states (ms) which do not send timely or complete and accurate information to european databases (sis, vis, eurodac), to europol or to states with which they have bilateral relations in these areas; (b) a large proportion of the ms securing the external border of the union do not have the necessary resources and teams to deal with the migration and refugee crisis. in this context, and in the context of the recent adoption of rules on mobile applications for borders, border reinforcement, equipment purchases at the airport and other borders, we need further measures. draft amending budget no 3/2016 provides for the allocation of eur 15,8 million for additional security measures. of this amount, eur 3,5 million will go to the european schools, eur 5 million to the commission and eur 0,2 million to the parliament. this amount allows the recruitment of 35 additional permanent posts of security officers in institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that will reinforce the budget for security for the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the european court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of regions and the european external action service following recent terror attacks that have led these institutions to review their security needs.
in writing. ‒ the increasing intensity of the global terrorist phenomenon has a direct impact on the lives of every european citizen. the attacks in brussels in march this year, right next to the european institutions, demonstrated the need to strengthen their security. the european union, as a political project that supports fundamental rights and freedoms, the rule of law, democracy, prosperity and economic openness, has become a direct target of these radical extremist groups whose only aim is to spread fear, ignorance and hatred worldwide. in this context, the union institutions need in particular to strengthen the backstop by allocating from the budget an additional total of eur 15,8 million for appropriate actions within the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. in the european parliament, this is the creation of an additional 35 permanent posts of security officers, which are not covered by the provisions for a 5% reduction in staff. i welcome these measures and support this much-needed initiative.
in writing. ‒ the iran nuclear agreement is a major achievement for multilateral diplomacy and european diplomacy, fostering the strengthening of relations between the european union and iran, and contributing to the promotion of stability in the region. i believe that the union's relations with iran must evolve in parallel with the implementation of the nuclear agreement, and that a renewal of relations between the member states and iran is needed. i welcome the opening up of relations with iran, expressing my support for the report on the union's strategy towards iran following the conclusion of the nuclear agreement, as i believe that this strengthening of the eu-iran partnership will bring a number of important benefits for both sides, both from the point of view of trade and economic aspects and from the point of view of stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ the iran nuclear deal was a remarkable achievement for european diplomacy in particular, which not only improved relations between the eu and iran, but also contributed to promoting stability in the entire region. the lifting of all nuclear-related sanctions against the islamic republic of iran allows for the relaunch of cooperation with iran, which will create opportunities and benefits for both parties involved. eu-iran relations need to develop in parallel with the implementation of the nuclear agreement. iran has the second largest economy in the middle east, with an estimated nominal gdp of usd 397 billion in 2015, and eu-iran trade currently stands at around usd 8 billion, estimated to quadruple in the next two years. we voted to uphold our commitment to iran by lifting economic and financial sanctions, which will also lead to a resolution of the security crisis in the region.
in writing. ‒ we must be at the forefront of the eu’s normalisation of relations with iran. in line with this approach, we should support the leading role the hr/vp mogherini in overseeing the implementation of the nuclear deal, trust-building and expansion of relations in areas of mutual interest. at the same time, we should emphasise the need for iran to live up to its international commitments on human rights, and in particular, drastically reduce the number of executions and release all political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that calls for the improvement of eu-iran relations following the nuclear agreement, providing stability across the whole region. the lifting of all nuclear-related sanctions against the islamic republic of iran is the result of the successful implementation of its commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action, thus creating new opportunities and benefits for both sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that its text is in total contradiction with the precarious state of democracy in iran and avoids reflecting the repeated violations of human rights by the national authorities. i find it unacceptable that in a european parliament document, in using such a condescending tone towards the regime in tehran, all the serious incidents that have occurred in recent years in that country are ignored and that it is forgotten that many of them continue to this day.
in writing. ‒ a year ago, the historic agreement on the iranian nuclear programme was signed between the international community and the authorities in tehran. the european union has played a key role in this regard, with the key contribution of the high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, to the mediation efforts. the signing of the agreement is a key prerequisite for the normalisation of relations between the eu and its member states and iran, a very important player in the middle east region. the potential for expanding cooperation between the two sides includes key areas such as trade, environmental protection, aviation, security (including the energy component), academic exchanges. at the same time, iran plays an important role in stabilising the regional situation in the middle east, alongside saudi arabia. however, there are also a number of areas where the regime in tehran still has problems, particularly with respect for human rights. the eu is concerned about the high number of executions caused by the continuation of the death penalty, the arrest of dual nationals (iranian and eu nationals), gender discrimination, the lack of respect for minority rights and freedom of expression. the resolution calls for closer cooperation between iran and the un human rights structures. i support the adoption of this report.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. these are also channels for terrorist financing. the fraud against the eu budget, which we discuss every year, must be a crime throughout europe. so must be the vat carousel with european money. this is why we need the european public prosecutor's office quickly, because at member state level these crimes are not investigated and prosecuted at about the same level. there are ups and downs, very different numbers. i hope that at the latest in the coming weeks, i.e. the last weeks of this year, we will have a clear answer for the conclusion of the negotiations on the european public prosecutor's office. one more thing: the limitation periods for investigating and prosecuting these acts of corruption, money laundering and fraud must be harmonised. if i may say one last sentence, the states that say they have no corruption are lying, because they have corruption, but they don't investigate it. thank you. thank you.
in writing. ‒ organised crime is one of the main threats globally. organisations constituted by criminal groups have intensified their illegal activities in recent years and new action is needed to sanction their actions. it is therefore necessary to create a framework for the correct transposition of existing rules, the monitoring and evaluation of their effectiveness. member states should therefore transpose all existing instruments at european and international level in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a multidisciplinary approach is needed to prevent and combat organised crime and at the same time to achieve a strengthened partnership between national authorities and the relevant eu agencies.
in writing. ‒ corruption is a threat to democracy, the rule of law, social equity and justice, it erodes the principles of effective administration, undermines the market economy and endangers the stability of state institutions. most anti-corruption actions have been mainly punitive measures, the effect of which has not been far from expected. global anti-corruption policy must be expressed most effectively through a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the report on 'fighting corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution'. eradicating corruption will boost economic activity. this will make the european union stronger, the economic market of the member states more attractive to foreign investors, increase private sector revenues, improve the quality of services provided to the population and make it possible to promote social policy more effectively, develop the health and education systems. these actions are impossible without adequate support from the commission, which must propose legislative measures to fill any gaps that may exist in the fight against organised crime and corruption and to improve cross-border judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ organised crime is a global threat that requires a joint response coordinated by the eu and its member states. organised criminal groups have demonstrated a particular tendency and capacity to diversify their activities, thereby adapting to different geographical factors and economic and social contexts, exploiting their weaknesses and vulnerabilities, acting simultaneously in different markets and taking advantage of differences in the legal provisions in the legal systems of the member states. organised crime, corruption and money laundering pose serious threats to the eu economy, significantly reducing tax revenues for member states, but also for the eu as a whole. re-evaluating the legislative framework to fill any gaps is a priority. the phenomenon of organised crime has a cross-border dimension and requires more effective cooperation at eu level. i voted for the creation of an appropriate eu-wide system for the exchange of information between judicial authorities within the union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is a follow-up to the parliament report adopted in the last legislature on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (the ‘crim’ report). the report was drafted in anticipation of the commission’s 2nd anti-corruption report (still not published), takes a fresh look at the recommendations set out in the crim report, and seeks to draw conclusions on the recommendations which were followed up and those which were not. at a time when all the talk is of a ‘terrorist threat’, it is crucial not to forget the importance of having a serious strategy backed up by serious action to tackle the growing prevalence of organised crime and corruption infiltrating many levels of society in the eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which draws attention to the importance of the legal system in preventing organised crime, corruption and money laundering. this report highlights the need for urgent regulatory action at european level on the spread of corruption and high-level criminal organisations. the overall objectives of the report are to ensure that there are rules in place and to call for a more holistic approach to organised crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that reiterates the need of a common and coordinated european action plan to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report on the fight against corruption at the level of the member states and the european institutions because i have argued and i still argue that the fight against corruption must take place within the limits of the rule of law both in romania and in the rest of the member states. i also appreciate that this report succeeds in showing the disastrous implications and ramifications of corruption for the economic and political stability of a state and for ensuring fair competition in various markets. the implications of organised crime at various key points in the political, economic and judicial systems of some member states through corruption endangers the entire system of a state. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's request to the european commission to present as soon as possible the report on the situation of corruption in the member states, but also within the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ in order to step up the fight against corruption, organised crime and money-laundering, the report tries to ensure that rules that already exist are enforced, to close loopholes in existing legislative frameworks and to request a more holistic approach to organised crime and corruption. although some issues in the report were controversial, such as the need for a specific instrument to tackle ‘mafia-style’ criminal organisations – an idea that the s&d group sympathises with – all major political parties gave the green light to the report during the compromise phase. i support this report, as i believe that it is very important to have a serious strategy backed up by a plan of action in order to tackle the growing prevalence of organised crime and corruption in the eu. although the focus today is on terrorist threats, the danger of organised crime and corruption should not be ignored.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon caused by a number of negative factors, but which can have an impact on demographic trends and economic development. in this context, the european union, but also its member states, must set an example in the promotion and protection of human rights. respect for the rights of migrants, irrespective of their status, is a priority for the union. i voted for closer cooperation with the relevant international organisations in defence of migrants' rights. identifying specific measures that governments can take to increase the potential of legal migration is necessary to stimulate development.
in writing. ‒ the report makes an analysis of the main root causes of the migration phenomena in third countries and stresses that according to the unhrc, the 65 million displaced people are affected by humanitarian conflicts resulting from conflicts and worldwide economic situation and that they should see their dignity and human rights respected. members call on governments to address the human rights protection gap, which migrants continue to face and to abolish punitive legal schemes which criminalise migration. the report also underlines that ‘the concept of safe countries of origin’ should not prevent individual assessments of asylum application and asks for migrants who need international protection to be identified and for their application to be considered. moreover a call is made on states to ratify all international treaties and conventions and to apply the standards applicable to migrants’ rights which may be found in a variety of legal international instruments. i supported the adoption of this report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ unhrc estimates there are 65.3 million displaced and over 10 million stateless people worldwide. according to the un, there are 244 million international migrants. migration is therefore a global issue. significantly, migration is a human right enshrined in the geneva convention and undhr. however, many refugees, asylum seekers and irregular migrants are criminalised and penalised. development aid is key to tackling the migration crisis. member states should honour their pledge of 0.7 gni for development aid. this aid should consider the root causes of migration and its global context. the flow of migration is largely within the global south, with most refugees hosted by developing countries. therefore, aid should address sources of conflict and migration in host and transit countries, and mostly in the countries of origin of the migrants.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that stresses that human rights are essential to all human beings regardless of their ethnicity or religion, following the migration of persons that have been forced to leave their countries due to conflicts, persecution, violations of human rights and/or extreme poverty.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the difficulties migrants face both in their countries of origin, which is why they are forced to seek refuge in other countries, and in countries of transit and destination. international law in general and human rights in particular provide for the right of any person to benefit from migrant status when the situation calls for it, and i support by my vote today the call for both eu member states and the international community to do more to protect these people and ensure that the rights they have are respected. the report also highlights that many migrants end up in developing countries, which face major difficulties in managing these flows. in this regard, i believe that supporting these countries in ensuring adequate treatment for all migrants must continue to be a priority.
in writing. ‒ migration in general is a global, multidimensional phenomenon generated by a multitude of causes (economic, social, political) which also produces positive effects as a result of globalisation and the interdependencies of markets. from a human perspective, migration contributes to demographic developments and to economic and social growth, provided that the fundamental rights of those who migrate are respected. in this regard, migration policies should contribute to the full integration of migrants into host country communities so that they can benefit from their potential (social, cultural, economic, creative). of course, these national policies must be coherent and comprehensive, taking into account all the dimensions and implications of the migration phenomenon, the result of cooperation and collaboration between all those interested in this complex phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ this report underlines the need for urgent action to address all human rights violations faced by migrants, which are most acute in situations of pressure due to security challenges and natural disasters. according to the unhrc, the 65 million displaced people are affected by humanitarian conflicts resulting from violent conflicts and worldwide economic situations. the report asks the european union and its member states to lead by example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, notably within their own borders, and to systematically incorporate migration issues as a component of their political dialogue with all countries. the report calls on the eu to provide technical assistance to improve national and local migrant integration policies and to step up its foreign policies in bringing peace and stability to those areas where war and conflict trigger enormous migration flows to the european union. i support this report as we need as much visibility and acknowledgement as possible towards the issue of human rights violations faced by migrants, as well as solutions to what triggers the enormous flows of migration to the european union.
thank you. thank you. we've seen shocking images from factories in india, china, cambodia, where there are european fashion companies, for example. what we saw there: we saw the practice of slavery, we can call it modern slavery, but it's still slavery. i've seen people working 18 hours a day, sometimes without pay, and people getting beaten up when they protest. don't get me wrong, i'm not against corporations, it's about respecting human rights in corporations, not only in europe, but also when they work in countries outside europe. of course, we're not going to be able to regulate the minimum wage or tell employers how many people to lay off or how many to keep. but we can enforce human rights for those who work. we need to remember that the un and oecd principles on human rights must be applied in a non-discriminatory way all over the world, not just in europe. thank you. thank you.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of binding acts addressed to businesses which provide for the respect of a set of fundamental values in the field of human rights, but also in the field of labour standards. as the increasing globalisation of business will lead to an expanded role for corporations in ensuring respect for human rights, new regulations are needed to protect the rights of employees in third countries. a number of cases of human rights violations have been reported in third countries, which is why the legal framework needs to be updated and existing regulations improved in order to prevent and sanction cases of serious human rights violations. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that immediate action is taken to identify effective solutions to human rights abuses by international corporations.
in writing. ‒ with the end of the economic crisis, the corporate sector has expanded increasingly to meet new demands, resulting in an increase in the demand for labour, including for workers from non-eu countries. unlike posted workers from eu member states, those from third countries do not benefit from the provisions of the labour legislation in force. this creates confusion as to both the rights of these persons and the obligations of their employers. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the report on 'corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries'. mandatory instruments are needed to ensure effective protection of human rights in this area and to ensure that all national and international obligations arising from the international rules referred to in that report are fully respected. the seconded third-country nationals should enjoy the same rights and conditions. i call for the adoption of the un guiding principles, noting that these guiding principles were unanimously approved by the un with the full support of the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and the rights of persons. the intensification of the phenomenon of internationalization of business activities has increased the importance of the role of corporations in ensuring and respecting human rights. states and businesses have different but complementary roles in protecting these rights. i voted for the adoption of binding instruments on the effective protection of human rights and the full implementation of all national and international obligations as a matter of urgency. cooperation with international partners to ensure, through legislative, judicial, administrative or other appropriate means, access to effective remedy for victims is necessary.
in writing. ‒ the report reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations. i am deeply concerned by cases of human rights violations committed in third countries, including as a result of some eu corporations and business enterprises management decisions. in this report, we strongly reiterate our support for the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights (ungps) and their worldwide implementation and call for ‘companies, whether european or not, to carry out human rights due diligence’ as well as for the allocation of sufficient resources for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that calls on corporations, following the globalisation of business activities and supply chains, to ensure respect for human rights and create a situation where international norms, rules and cooperation are crucial in order to avoid cases of human rights abuses in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the un global compact (with its 10 principles) required businesses to accept, support and apply in their environment a set of core values in terms of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, which contributes to their acceptance by the socio-economic environment and, by implication, to their sustained development. however, over time, corporations have often caused or contributed to human rights violations, especially of vulnerable groups: minorities, indigenous peoples, women, children, or environmental damage/destruction. as the role of corporations in the development of human society is increasing due to the globalisation and internationalisation of business, the need for a continuous, effective and coherent approach at all levels (national, european, international) to find effective solutions to corporate abuses is complemented by the use of tools that can stimulate corporate social responsibility. the un global compact, the iso 26000 standard on social responsibility, the ilo tripartite declaration of principles on multinational enterprises and social policy and the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises are thus effective and appropriate tools.
in writing. ‒ this report tackles the deep concern regarding human rights violations committed in third countries, including due to some eu corporations’ and business enterprises’ management decisions, as well as by individuals, non-state actors and states. the report reminds corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights throughout their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and independently of whether the host state meets its own human rights obligations. i support this report, as i believe that breaches of human rights by eu corporations, and others, in third countries are unacceptable and are contrary to the fundamental principles of the european union. furthermore, i would like to highlight the importance of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights (ungps) and their worldwide implementation and call on ‘companies, whether european or not, to carry out human rights due diligence’ as well as the allocation of sufficient resources for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ liquefied natural gas plays a significant role in the union's energy system, in industrial production, as a source of heating for buildings, and as a support for energy from renewable sources. the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage thus aims to deliver on the union's intention to move to a sustainable, secure energy system, but also to limit dependence on external natural gas suppliers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets. the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is designed to accelerate the process of achieving the overarching objective of a resilient energy union, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the eu has the ambition to transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, treating energy efficiency as an energy source in its own right and developing low-carbon energy sources. among the commission's communications, the latest in february on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage helps to achieve this. energy security can be most effectively ensured by better coordination of national energy policies, by establishing a real energy union with a single energy market and a common energy policy, and by cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust. i support this report because i believe that the eu should work closely with its international partners and in international forums to ensure a free, liquid and transparent lng market everywhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ the european union strategy on liquefied natural gas and its storage is one element of the energy union, which aims at a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system that is no longer dependent on external natural gas suppliers. this energy security can be ensured by better coordination of national energy policies, but also by a common energy policy. all eu citizens must have access to a secure supply of energy at affordable prices. the commission also found that the russian producers of gas were not able to obtain sufficient quantities of gas from the union market. storage of liquefied natural gas, as well as increased efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, can play a vital role in reducing dependence on russian gas. we voted to ensure that the necessary funding is provided for research into technologies using liquefied natural gas, so that in the future we can also reduce global co2, sox and nox emissions.
in writing. ‒ the global supply of lng is expected to increase dramatically in the next few years (50%) and consequently the price of it will most likely go down, which according to the commission represents a major opportunity for the eu, particularly when it comes to gas security and resilience, and especially for those member states currently heavily reliant on a single supplier, and hence vulnerable to supply disruptions. the report recommends that in order to exploit the full potential of lng and to make the eu an attractive market for suppliers, the union needs to ensure that the necessary infrastructure is in place. however, as existing lng infrastructure in the eu is currently heavily underused, the report underlines the need to, before supporting new regasification terminals and from a cross-border perspective, promote the most efficient use of existing lng terminals, also to avoid technology lock-in or stranded assets in fossil fuel infrastructure. the eu should also step up its efforts to cooperate closely with international partners to promote free, liquid and transparent global lng markets.
in writing. ‒ the increase of liquefied natural gas on the global market is a good opportunity for the european union to diversify its energy supply. as liquefied natural gas is only an interim solution, the eu needs to diminish its gas dependency in the long run. the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to reach its climate and energy targets.
in writing. i voted for the report on liquefied natural gas because the future european strategy in this area is one of the axes of the energy union. the eu needs to eliminate dependence on external natural gas suppliers and build a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system. therefore, i consider that doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline would have a negative effect on the energy union, the need to ensure energy independence from the russian monopoly. this project must not benefit from european financial support or from derogations from european legislation. the eu needs to focus on the full implementation of the third energy package and on strengthening a well-connected gas network across gas markets to ensure an integrated single market. for projects of common interest, the commission should fully include the balkan countries in the planning of the future reconstruction of the gas pipeline and the ten-e network. as regards the black sea region, it is to play a key role for infrastructure projects of strategic importance for the supply of lng in the eu. the eu must give this region the geostrategic importance it deserves for ensuring energy security and diversifying energy supplies from the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that aims to make the eu gas system more diverse and flexible, contributing to the energy union objective of a secure, resilient and competitive gas supply, thus taking full advantage of the potential of liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas because i believe that this resource is vital for the energy security of the whole union. the greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2050, the increase in import dependency for some member states to almost 100% and the limited number of suppliers available for these gases are very challenging for many member states. in this context, i consider that the development and implementation of an eu-wide strategy fully integrating both lng transport and storage systems is a priority for the eu. the integration of lng at union level will also allow for better long-term management of the resources available at the moment and will provide a better bargaining position on gas imports, allowing for lower prices and a greater number of suppliers from reliable sources.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's largest energy consumers. under these conditions, member states need the most efficient combination of energy sources, including liquefied natural gas (lng). this source has been on the rise in recent years, providing significant quantities at a lower and lower price and with a reduced polluting effect. the eu has a significant pipeline, storage and regasification infrastructure, but it needs to be made more efficient and completed where needed, to allow all member states easy access to this resource and to avoid dependence on a single energy source or vulnerability to changes in international markets. the use of lng would also lead to the replacement of traditional polluting fuels in road and maritime transport. the eu could promote a free, functional and transparent lng market internationally. at the same time, however, this should not affect the development of renewable energy sources and the union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i think it's an important development in this area, providing a temporary solution to replace polluting energy resources.
in writing. ‒ there is a lot of misunderstanding and discontent amongst fishermen in europe, who feel discriminated against by other fishermen in other member states, who are subject to less rigid controls. the issue of uniform enforcement of the law was thus raised in order to increase efficiency but also to offer equal treatment to all fishermen in europe. a number of obstacles to harmonisation have been identified, such as the diversity of control areas, the different control procedures and methods for almost every member state, and significantly different penalties for the same infringement. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to eliminate all differences in the implementation of fisheries controls in europe in order to ensure equal and non-discriminatory treatment of all fishermen.
in writing. ‒ each member state has different control procedures. even though there is a standard form for finding infringements on board a ship, control procedures vary. the instruments, equipment and financial means used to carry out controls also vary from one member state to another. fishermen often complain that they are subject to much stricter controls than their neighbours in another member state or even more rigorous than in any other field. i voted for the implementation of a european training programme for inspectors to develop a single reference framework for control, but also for the standardisation of procedures.
in writing. ‒ we must attach utmost priority to fisheries controls in order to achieve the objectives of the cfp reform. the forthcoming revision of the control regulation must set effective rules able to prevent, detect and sanction infringements of the cfp, focusing on greater harmonisation and increased cooperation establishing transparent, standardised control procedures. the important role of efca must be acknowledged, including through the allocation of sufficient resources. member states are responsible for the implementation of the control regulation; closer cooperation between member states as well as coordination with efca and the european commission is thus crucial for the further harmonisation of effective controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which reflects the priorities of the call for simpler, more comprehensive and more coherent rules. they also stand for greater transparency, cooperation and innovation. in addition, emphasis has been placed on equal and non-discriminatory treatment, such as the protection of labour and environmental standards and the establishment of effective rules for the prevention, detection and sanctioning of cfp infringements, thus creating increased harmonisation and cooperation, as well as transparent and standardised control procedures.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that calls for the standardisation of fisheries controls among eu member states. the controls will become more effective following investments of actors in compatible modern technologies such as satellite tracking of vessels. the motion for a resolution also stresses the need for the standardisation of sanctions through the creation of a judge specialising in maritime matters in each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this own-initiative report, which i worked on as shadow rapporteur, because i believe that the document underlines the importance of standardising certain aspects of fisheries controls in europe. at the same time, it is very important that this standardisation allows a certain degree of flexibility for the member states' authorities to choose the most efficient and correct control methods, depending on the specificities of the areas and types of fisheries. as these controls are designed to protect consumers, the environment and ensure fair competition in this area, i look forward to the european commission's next report on the state of play of the fisheries control system so that we can work to improve it.
we keep going until it happens. transport infrastructure needs to be connected and accessible to create jobs, grow the economy and increase competition. i remind the commission of the obligation laid down in the white paper to transfer 30% of road transport over distances of more than 300 kilometres to rail and inland waterway transport by 2030. the transport potential on the region's inland waterways should be used more, especially along the danube. secondly, the possibility of opening the rhine-danube corridor northwards via the via carpathia must be considered. and four, i ask that this project, via carpathia, be included in the ten-t core network to ensure adequate funding from the european union. thank you. thank you.
in writing. ‒ economic activities in europe depend to a significant extent on existing transport links of very high quality. in addition, in order to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion in the member states, well-connected and accessible transport networks are necessary. the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is a first step in promoting the interconnection and interoperability of national networks. it is necessary to continue the momentum of this new ten-t process in order to address the problems of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states. although some progress has been made in modernising and improving the transport infrastructure of the central and eastern european member states, major obstacles remain in terms of accessibility and connectivity of the transport infrastructure. i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe it is a key instrument to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe and will have a positive impact in terms of economic growth and stimulating investment.
in writing. ‒ transport is the foundation of any economy. market integration, economic growth and transport activity are closely linked activities. in the eu, effective transport links have facilitated the creation and integration of the internal market. however, efforts are still needed to link western europe's transport systems effectively with those of central and eastern europe in order to maintain economic growth and employment opportunities for citizens and businesses at the highest possible level. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. i believe that the time has come for a change, with a view to developing transport hubs which are an essential element for interconnecting long-distance, regional and urban transport, thus promoting efficiency, intermodality and the development of the regional business environment. in urban areas, walking and cycling facilities should become an integral part of urban mobility and infrastructure projects. it should be recalled that all the means made available by the european fund for strategic investments must be used in time to improve transport infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ ensuring high-quality transport is essential for the quality of life of union citizens, but also for economic activity. the interconnection of national networks is the future of transport within the union. projects to re-establish links to and from the western eu states should be extended to countries such as estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's transport policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the union's transport policy and the implementation of the union's transport policy. we voted to develop this project with benefits for both regional security and the mobility and well-being of citizens.
in writing. ‒ transport infrastructure across the central and eastern europe region has greatly improved over recent years but much more needs to be done, particularly on developing the ten-t core corridors and comprehensive network. the benefits of bridging missing links and improving connectivity can extend to passengers and freight, supporting passenger mobility, trade, economic development, tourism and enhancing the security of the eastern border of the eu. this report covers all modes of transport and emphasises multimodal transport, stressing the need not only for major road infrastructure projects to be completed but high-speed rail, inland waterway navigation and improved connections between regional airports. full use should be made of available financial support, particularly from cef and efsi. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is of particular importance for improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) have been the main source of public transport investment in central and eastern europe, and the connecting europe facility (cef) is an important financing instrument for the further development of transport infrastructure in the region as part of the ten-t core network corridors. the disparities in infrastructure development and quality between the cee region and the rest of europe can only be reduced by a clear, concrete and integrated strategy at eu level. the needs of cyclists should also be taken into account in the construction and modernisation of road infrastructure in central and eastern europe, as the development of cycling infrastructure in central and eastern european countries will increase safety, reduce road fatalities and improve the quality of life and health of the population in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report that will address the challenges regarding the accessibility and connectivity of the transport infrastructure in the member states of the central and eastern european part of the eu, that will bring together romania, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, and bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the interconnection and accessibility of transport infrastructure between central and eastern europe is essential for the development of the eu area. i think first of all about the advantages that my country can have. important projects such as via carpatica, rail baltica and baltic-adriatic need further support from brussels, as they will help all the communities they will connect and will contribute substantially to the development of the regions and the member states. i also voted for the inclusion in this report of amendments on the importance of accelerating and developing the via carpatica project, which i consider very important for the development of romania, by connecting it to the major infrastructures of the union.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that in central and eastern europe the transport infrastructure in most regions is underdeveloped compared to other european regions and that one cannot talk about economic growth, sustainable development, economic competitiveness, territorial cohesion and employment growth without an improvement in the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure. moreover, the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy, in particular as regards the desired economic development of border regions, is not possible without improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. clearly, the differences in the quantity and quality of infrastructure development between the cee region and the rest of europe can only be reduced by a clear, concrete and integrated strategy at eu level, thus contributing to the development of tourism, the labour market, the market for goods and services and, by implication, all economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation of connectivity in central and eastern europe is a first and major step towards reducing the significant disparities accumulated between this region and the west. it recognises that, despite efforts undertaken by the commission through its cohesion policy, several eastern member states are lagging behind in terms of infrastructure projects and attracting the eu funds available for these. in light of this, the report is proposing that the commission comes with a strategy for central and eastern europe, integrating all large infrastructure projects, taking into account both the differences between various regions and the long-term objectives of the eu. at the same time it proposes means by which european traffic can be diverted towards more transport modes, taking thus into consideration environmental concerns and congestion problems. not least, the present report brings a new perspective to tourism by soliciting that european infrastructure projects be connected with tourism objectives, underlining the close relationship between this industry and transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. high-quality transport links are essential for economic activities in europe and for the quality of life of our citizens. at the heart of fostering economic, social and territorial cohesion in and between eu member states are easily accessible and well-connected transport networks, which include the local, regional, national and cross-border dimension of freight and passenger transport.
mr president, i have not endorsed this report after much deliberation. on the one hand, i consider the issue of human rights and democracy to be a key issue for the european union, but the proposal as it has been put forward is, in my view, wrong and good intentions, as they say, pave the way to hell. in short, to introduce a new mechanism of state control and new ways of bureaucratically enforcing human rights and democracy in individual member states will, in my view, not work in practice and will only lead to a weakening of the cohesion of the european union in the future. and i say this with the awareness that the human rights and democracy agenda is extremely important and that we must speak about it constantly here on the floor of parliament and do everything we can to improve democracy and human rights in europe. but it doesn't have to be this way, it doesn't have to be this way of bureaucratization, where anonymous officials evaluate individual sovereign states and then impose sanctions on them if necessary. this is against the sovereignty of the individual member states of the european union.
we have been talking for a long time about a mechanism to check the rule of law and respect for human rights, respect for the law in the member states. it is necessary such a mechanism and i am totally to implement it. it's a monitoring mechanism, a tracking mechanism, but also a correction mechanism, obviously, because that's the goal, to correct what's wrong, and to sanction if necessary. and we're talking about states where democracy is still fragile -- like the post-communist states -- mainly about these. i am glad that parliament is not alone in this fight, that there will also be non-governmental organisations, that there will also be independent experts in respect for the law and respect for human rights. also, if the mechanism of sanctioning those states that do not respect the standards of democracy and the rule of law proposed by the commission will also lead to savings, as the report shows, then we will achieve two objectives.
in writing. ‒ europe has a long tradition of democracy, the rule of law and citizens' rights, beginning with athenian democracy followed by roman law. although the eu currently has some tools to ensure respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, gaps remain. it is imperative to adopt a framework that enables the eu to address not only certain breaches of its laws but also serious risks to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i voted for the adoption of an eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, a pact that will lead to respect for the eu's fundamental values in practice, not just in theory. a number of additional non-legislative measures are needed to ensure a comprehensive view of the respect for the values on which the eu is founded in addition to this pact.
in writing. ‒ even if the eu has several existing instruments at its disposal to ensure the principles on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld, substantial gaps remain and in practice, such instruments are often limited in scope, inadequate and ineffective, or they are unlikely to be used. in some cases, their uneven application is perceived by many as politically motivated, arbitrary and unfairly targeting certain countries. there is no integrated mechanism for the systematic, impartial and complete monitoring of all eu member states and institutions. therefore it is imperative to adopt a framework that enables the eu to address not only infringements to specific eu laws, but also (risk of) serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. european values are given the highest importance in the treaties, it is high time they also got the highest importance in practice.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report that calls for the adoption of a framework that will enable the eu to address infringements to specific eu laws, serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i thought it was very important that, in the context of the many debates, sometimes political, about whether or not certain democratic procedures are respected in the member states, it is right that a uniform eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights be created. while i believe that by bringing national issues to brussels we force the european institutions to intervene in the internal procedures of member states that are not within eu competence, to ensure an impartial analysis of the various situations and to ensure compliance with eu principles, i support the development of this mechanism applicable to all member states.
mr president, i would like to welcome the adoption of the 2017 work programme by the commission and say that the title of this programme is particularly well chosen to reflect the challenges we are facing at the moment. in the field of external relations, we must reassure the european citizens, responding to their expectations by taking coherent action in the face of the instability and conflicts that are increasing in our neighbourhood, in the east and in the south. more than ever, defending and promoting freedom, supporting our allies and preventing atrocities must be at the heart of our actions in our neighbourhood. at the same time, the enlargement process must continue. this process gives hope to the countries concerned and dissuades the wishes of the powers which, like russia in the balkans or moldova, are working to destabilise our immediate neighbourhood. in addition, the implementation of the european external investment plan will be crucial in the coming months. by recognising the central role of the private sector in job creation, economic growth and wider societal transformation, this plan is a very concrete embodiment of a europe that empowers. it also represents a hope that we will finally have a single, coherent framework to stimulate investment in africa and our neighbourhood and to combat war, poverty, lack of infrastructure and poor governance, which are fundamentally threatening the security of our citizens.
commissioner, you have recently been faced with two difficult situations for the european budget: economic crises and the refugee crisis, and at the same time the lack of money to make payments to the member states. the proposal you've made attempts to solve some of these problems. it's a bold proposal and i congratulate you on it. let's see if that seat over there, which is not occupied, will agree. you have taken a step forward in solving the current crisis and other possible crises by this return to the budget of the money that has been withdrawn, something we have been asking for a very long time. and you probably managed to make a situation easier. but not totally -- you've been told here, now it's just the commitments, you have to solve the payment problem. the cash crunch will be repeated because cohesion policy will again be in this situation. so you have to solve this problem in the future by imposing the very simple but very clear principle: the council has to pay the money, all the money that they committed to pay when they set the budget years ago.
europe has faced, and is facing, in recent years, many challenges and crises. we have the migration crisis, the refugee crisis and also the challenges of terrorist attacks, so the fight against terrorism. an adequate response to these crises and challenges obviously requires a rethinking of the budget and a responsible review of those union budgetary financing. we also need to show our responsibility to european citizens and reduce our own spending in the european institutions. and i welcome the commission's proposal to make available the money left over in the previous financial year, to make it available now for these challenges for which there was no money in the budget. and i also ask the council to take responsibility and to ensure a realistic, credible and coherent budget for the years ahead that foresees all these crises that could have been foreseen in their time.
reporting for opinion, committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs thank you. i hope that today and tomorrow's vote sends a message to the european citizens that we are lucid, that we are responsible - especially when it comes to their money - and that is in the context of setting the priorities for 2017. we're talking about budget priorities here. i listened to my colleagues, and of course, everyone has an interest in various creative industries, youth employment, and i have these, infrastructure and so on. but we have one pie, that is, one money fund, and we can't make it bigger by pulling from it. so i think we all need to come to an agreement on how we use money better and what the priorities are. there was also a need to mobilise more money for 2017 for an immediate response to the migration crisis, for the fight against terrorism, for the security of citizens. that means new funds and reorganization of existing funds. and here i want to say very briefly that we also need to make savings in the european institutions, including in parliament, and demonstrate transparency for all the spending and for every euro we use.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner colleagues, the parliament’s position on the eu budget 2017 reflects two key priorities of the epp group. it is a budget which promotes growth and jobs through investment in innovation and infrastructure. we will only have more jobs if our economy is competitive, strong and trustworthy in the eyes of investors. at the same time, this budget will address the current migratory and security challenges that we are facing. how will we make europe safer? how will we manage the refugees that came to europe over the course of the past two years? and how will we stop illegal migration through, of course, making our external borders safer? no matter how pressing these new challenges are, we will not compromise on the longstanding priorities of the union, which are jobs and growth. this is why we proposed to restore the cuts made to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, and we expect the council to follow suit on this. we allocate more money for students, for researchers, for youth and for smes through the programmes erasmus, cosme and the european research centre. we are glad to see that the commission proposes exactly this in its amending letter number one – to allocate more money to these very categories which i just mentioned. the amending letter from the commission shows that our reading anticipates the real needs of the eu budget. if new challenges which were not anticipated in 2013 when the mmf was agreed are to be addressed, new money is needed. new priorities should be financed with new money.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you mentioned in fact the very important necessity to use the existing flexibility instruments under the current mff, and i am asking you, do you not think that we should have even looked for a revision of the mff in order to make the european parliament priorities more clear?
in writing. the revision of the multiannual financial framework must not jeopardise the credibility of the european union and must ensure the necessary balance between achieving the union's long-term political priorities and responding to new challenges. i believe that the union budget must also find ways to finance new initiatives without affecting existing programmes. certain pilot projects in the fields of research and the common security and defence policy require additional funding. sustainable funding is needed for the implementation of the european space policy and the deployment of the galileo and copernicus satellites, in order to be able to provide services in the shortest possible time. it is also necessary to take full account of the commission's analysis on the launch of pilot projects on innovative space technologies (deorbiting and innovative materials in the space sector) and the feasibility of a joint undertaking in the space field. this new joint undertaking would contribute to the development of breakthrough technologies for the next generations of satellites and satellite infrastructure in general and thus to a clear outline of the future european space strategy.
in writing. the eu budget needs to be more flexible, in order to be able to respond promptly to challenges such as high youth unemployment, the refugee crisis, terrorism or the agricultural crisis. fortunately, the cohesion fund is not affected and, by default, neither are the european funds available to romania. the only condition is that romania also has access to this money, as, for the time being, the national authorities are moving along at a standstill, which has serious consequences for our economy. i am pleased that next year's budget also includes eur 3 million for two pilot projects that i have initiated to develop the digital sector and modernise industry: the digital hubs network and the digital transformation of european industry. the digital sector is the main pillar for the future economic development of the eu, but also of romania. the projects i initiate are intended to support this area and i believe they can lead to the efficiency of european industry as well as the development of start-ups and digital hubs. despite the high potential in this sector, romania, but also eastern europe in general, is in a gap with western europe that can be reduced by implementing these projects.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 october 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european semester has become an instrument for coordinating the economic policies of the member states of the european union. the european semester as a process is going well until the moment of implementation. that's where the trouble starts. the european commission recently decided not to propose sanctions for two member states not being on the path to reducing their budget deficits. unfortunately, indebted member states with public debt levels of around one per cent of gross domestic product, and some well over one per cent, such as greece, italy, portugal, are not yet willing to act decisively to reduce their debt. in this way, they maintain the state of instability for the entire euro area. with growth still anemic, reducing public debt requires clear measures to restructure public spending, bringing budget deficits under control. the theory that if you spend more, increasing the public debt, you'll get economic growth that will help you later reduce the debt doesn't work when you're over-indebted. the financial situation in some member states is still sustainable only as long as the european central bank maintains unchanged the two policies of quantitative easing and negative or very low interest rates.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the business taxation package (2016/2953 ((rsp)).
in writing. in a consumer economy and in the age of speed, the consumption of fast food, semi-prepared and processed foods is increasing exponentially, so there is a need for harmonised eu-wide regulation of agt, taking into account all existing regulations within the member states, but also those in the usa (on 16 june 2015, the fda, based on scientific evidence, bans the use of trans fatty acids in processed foods, with a 3-year deadline for manufacturers). this will eliminate the risk of low-income citizens or those aged 18 to 30 exceeding the who 1% threshold. obviously, labelling trans fats is necessary in a context where medical specialists and nutritionists consider trans fats to be the most dangerous type of fat, as they increase the level of bad (ldl) cholesterol in the body and lower the good (hdl). but there is also a need for a system for reading and interpreting labels on processed foods so that informed european citizens can improve their diets by developing appropriate nutrition and feeding programmes.
madam president, president of the european council, president of the commission, distinguished colleagues, while we are talking here about the bombing in aleppo, the bombing only continues every day. russia and assad have no regard for international humanitarian law, distinction and proportionality. they are refusing any ceasefire which will allow humanitarian relief. last friday in geneva – and i am convinced you are fully aware of this – the un commissioner for human rights, zeid ra'ad al hussein, described the bombardment and siege of aleppo as ‘crimes of historic proportions’. he referred to the lifeless bodies of small children trapped under streets of rubble. he called on the un to speak as one single voice. i would ask the council to do the same and say that the collective failure of the international community to protect civilians and to halt this bloodshed should haunt every one of us. yes colleagues, i also believe it is unforgivable today to witness such a horror and to do so little – probably only speaking. yes, no one could contest the complexity of the syrian war – the past errors and the current ones, the many actors who are to be blamed. no one could contest our strong commitment in fighting daesh and other un security council-recognised terrorist groups. but no one can contest either the deliberate bombing of civilians, hospitals and humanitarian professionals in aleppo by russia. and no, the fact that there are potential extremist groups infiltrated is not an excuse for any one of us. the fight against terrorism does not excuse the deliberate killing of innocents, and this is why in the end i say to the council: it’s enough. put an end to the divisions and the hesitations towards russia and call for an investigation into war crimes for the perpetrators.
on the regulation i would like to draw your attention. today we started the debate 10 minutes late. 10 people can't talk. i was the first man at 9.01, signed up to speak. it doesn't seem fair and democratic to me, you should postpone the debate by exactly 10 minutes, the more you delayed the start of the debate.
in writing. mr president, i will only be speaking on the subject of trade and agreements. mr juncker informed us that the us has a better trade defence policy than europe. this is a reality. but whose fault is it? who stopped the commission and the council from proposing trade defence mechanisms? why did europe deindustrialize? i am astonished at the council's attitude, which blocks parliament's initiatives and proposals. ceta, ttip, china and the uk are followed by other agreements. we need trade deals, but not in any form. the negotiations are not transparent. citizens ask us questions and we don't know what to answer. we need unity, but it's up to us how we work. why does the commission not come up with concrete proposals for trade defence so that we do not destroy jobs by bringing counterfeit and subsidised products onto the internal market? why does the council put off important things and hold fruitless debates without concrete decisions? you have to respond to these things with action. i have noticed that in the draft budget the council's position was to reduce the amount allocated to strengthening the capacity of sme financing and i do not understand why. europe needs sme development and jobs.
in writing. ‒ the budget allocated for 2017 must be in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, but also balanced between long-term priorities and new ones emerging along the way. the european union is facing a number of major emergencies, but also new challenges. the sustainable development goals must not be compromised. only by creating new jobs and supporting business development and entrepreneurship can we have smart, sustainable growth. i voted for more funding for research and infrastructure projects, and for those aimed at combating youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the budgets committee reversed all council’s cuts in commitment appropriations by restoring the commission’s draft budget (ec- db) for 2017. furthermore considerable increases over the commission’s draft budget on specific topics of political interest have been voted, mostly to fully compensate the cuts from the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), as well as to ensure additional resources needed for the internal and external dimension of the refugee crisis, and for financing the youth employment initiative. we must ask for a further use of the existing flexibility instruments under the current mff and making reference to the revision of the mff, in order to make the ep’s priorities clear. i welcome the fact that, in order to keep the political lead on the fight against youth unemployment, the youth employment initiative will be increased by eur 1.5 billion. also the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) has been increased by eur 4 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on ensuring the balance between long-term priorities and future challenges and also achieving the objectives set under the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017.
we also discussed yesterday the 2017 budget of the european union. i would now like to refer to only two specific issues: the money for the representation expenses of the president of parliament, which must be blocked and unblocked only under certain conditions, if certain questions are answered, and i ask for a clear separation of the roles of president of parliament and non-voting member. also, parliament staff must not get involved in private campaigning. unfortunately, that amendment fell through today. i don't know why my colleagues don't want us to have this transparency and these answers. i also ask for information on the international missions of the president of the parliament which appear to be connected with events of socialist organisations or events of the german government. and, secondly, on the specific issue, i would like to make a further plea for a single seat for the european parliament. i repeat, it costs us 900 million euros a year to come to strasbourg or luxembourg. and that amendment, unfortunately, fell through, but i'll say it again because it's a waste of european money.
in writing. ‒ the budgets committee reversed all council’s cuts in commitment appropriations by restoring the commission’s draft budget (ec- db) for 2017. furthermore, considerable increases over the commission’s draft budget on specific topics of political interest have been voted, mostly to fully compensate the cuts from the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi),as well as to ensure additional resources needed for the internal and external dimension of the refugee crisis, and for financing the youth employment initiative. we must ask for a further use of the existing flexibility instruments under the current mff and making reference to the revision of the mff, in order to make the ep’s priorities clear. i welcome the fact that, in order to keep the political lead on the fight against youth unemployment, the youth employment initiative will be increased by eur 1.5 billion. also the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) has been increased by eur 4 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, all sections.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favor of the draft general budget of the european union for 2017 that will ensure balance between long-term priorities and new challenges while in line with the eu2020 targets which represents the main priority of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines both the importance of building a budget for 2017 in line with the revision of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and the need for funds allocated to new challenges not to undermine the eu's original commitments and objectives. i believe it is essential that investment and funding continue for projects that support the economic development of member states and the creation of quality jobs and that encourage young people to develop successful new businesses. the european union has set itself important objectives in the europe 2020 strategy and these must remain a priority for funding in the years ahead, despite all the challenges we face.
mr president, we need more budgetary flexibility because we are facing acute crises in the areas of internal security and migration. we have unprecedented problems of youth unemployment, of the collapse, in a way, of the agricultural sector. people have quick and justified reactions to these realities. the treaty states that the union shall provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry out its policies. this means that both the european institutions and the member states must reflect the budgetary situation in an appropriate and realistic way. but the question is, have we clearly defined these goals? and in my opinion, they're not clearly established. we seem to forget the main reason we're here, which is to represent the interests of the people. second, what are our key priorities? do we know them very clearly? with all these european institutions - the council, the commission, the parliament - i don't think we know them clearly. and that's the only way we can win back people's trust: if we know what we want, we have the priorities, and we have the vision.
in writing. ‒ although i welcome the commission’s decision to propose a revision of the mff regulation, after many concerns regarding the structural insufficiencies and scarcity of resources available under the current framework, i believe that the only way for the eu to live up to its responsibilities and protect its citizens, whilst also responding to the crises, is to raise the ceilings and enhance the flexibility of the mff. the mff revision should be used to fully compensate the cuts in horizon 2020 and cef funding, as well as to ensure sufficient funding for those programmes which boost growth, jobs and competitiveness. therefore, i support an adequate response to the challenges that require a substantial amount of additional funding from the eu budget that could not been fully provided in the first years of the current perspective due to the scarce financial resources available under the current mff. in addition, i am of the opinion that an in-depth reform of the system of financing the union would make the eu budget more stable, more sustainable, and more predictable, while improving transparency for the citizens. this would consequently, minimise direct contributions from national budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the mff; it is an opportunity to continue reforms at european level and to implement the agreed political priorities for the mff 2014-2020. the revision of the mff also consists of boosting economic growth and the recovery of the european community area, and reorienting the eu budget towards concrete results and addressing internal and external challenges.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that stresses the deficiency of available resources under the current multiannual financial framework (mff) and will also respond to budgetary difficulties that are currently putting in danger the credibility of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from today's vote on the revision of the eu's multiannual financial framework, as the proposals contained in this report are contrary to romania's interests and their adoption will directly lead to a reduction in the funds allocated to the country i represent. the challenges of recent years on migration and economic instability, which could not be anticipated at the time of the initial planning of the 2014-2020 budgetary year, certainly require, now more than ever, the revision of the mff in the sense of redistributing funds. unfortunately, a large part of this money will be unfairly taken from money not absorbed by the member states. in this context, i cannot argue that these reallocations are made by transferring amounts from funds of major importance for the development of romania. although the romanian authorities have their share of blame for the weak attraction of eu funds, i do not think that all citizens should be punished for this slowdown of the public administration, which hopes to recover in the near future.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade practices. the commission has also received comments from estonia, which has submitted comments on the restructuring plan. i voted to support the reintegration of these laid-off workers into the labour market. the estonian authorities have provided all necessary guarantees that these persons will benefit from the principle of equal treatment and that no discrimination will be made in this respect, and that double funding will be avoided.
in writing. ‒ due to the recent global oil market turbulences and to the general decrease in europe’s international trade position for fertilizers (to the benefit of china’s producers) and low-cost gas regions outside europe, eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as have closed down plants or reduced production resulting in the collective termination of work contracts. i believe the conditions set out in article 4(2) of the egf regulation are met and that, therefore, estonia is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 131 358 under that regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by restructuring worldwide as a result of the economic crisis. the application from estonia for a grant of eur 1 131 358 from the egf to help workers made redundant in eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as to re-enter the labour market has been accepted by the european commission. i voted in favour of this report on support for measures for formal studies and the payment of training costs, for reimbursement of training costs for employers, labour market training, language courses, professional practice, financial and psychological counselling, allowances for participation in formal studies, scholarships, etc.
in writing. ‒ on the 11 may 2016, estonia submitted an egf application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. as rapporteur for this file i have voted for this report that will mobilise eur 1 131 358 from the egf to help 800 workers made redundant by providing them with personalised services consisting of labour market services, work practice, debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowance relating to the participants in formal studies, mobility allowance, training cost reimbursement and support for formal studies.
mr president, this directive requires that the websites of the european institutions be accessible to citizens of the union, and this can be done by harmonising legislation. that is what we have asked for in this directive which we have just voted. in this way, people will have access to information, to services, will be able to find jobs more easily and also all costs will be reduced. you can imagine that if websites talk to each other and communicate, people access them and we reduce the costs of even maintaining these websites. in addition, the directive also provides facilities for people with disabilities, for example, people who are partially or totally blind; for them, the colour or size of the text can be changed on these sites. a new option for reading text and audio description of the image can also be added. it is therefore a welcome directive. the question is how it will be put into practice. let's watch the member states put it into practice properly in the interest of the people. thank you. thank you.
in writing. ‒ considering the fact that we live in a digital age, all citizens should be treated equally when it comes to access to information, this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society, ensuring that public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications will have to be made accessible to everyone. i welcome the achievements made by the report, such as limiting vast exclusions in the scope as suggested by the council, e.g. inclusion of school websites insofar as relates to essential administrative functions. further, i welcome the fact that we achieved the extension of the scope to mobile applications, and inclusion of an enforcement and feedback mechanism in the implementation of the directive in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation regarding the adoption of a directive on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies.
in writing. ‒ in the knowledge society, or digital society, where information is the cornerstone, the connection of information and communication, the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications (of public bodies or managed by entities performing public tasks) is essential and a harmonised approach at eu level would reduce costs for all actors involved. the internet, considered the most interesting balancing tool ever created by man, generates new models of organisation and economic activity, offering users new possibilities of access to information and services, as well as new and unprecedented jobs. the internet has now become an essential tool for access to education, information and social development. as such, citizens should have extensive access to online public services, as well as to information, cultural and entertainment websites, for their personal and professional development, in order to ensure their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the guarantor of the rights of all its citizens at all levels, without discrimination. in these circumstances, the european institutions must consider providing appropriate services for people with disabilities. these services include public websites and mobile applications for public use. they must be designed to enable all citizens of the member states, including blind or visually impaired persons, deaf or hearing impaired persons, to be informed correctly and fully. the commission has come up with a proposal to this effect as early as 2012, but it included a wide range of public broadcasters without taking into account the specific conditions of each area of public communication. the current document concerns only electronic broadcasting channels, leaving the audiovisual sector to be regulated by other specific legislation. in view of the time required for the adoption of this regulation, i believe that it is necessary to adopt it without delay in order to allow persons with disabilities to benefit from the application of the measures. i therefore support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am confident that the new legislation will assure a high degree of security for the european union with regards to imports of plants and plant products. with the new system, the introduction of pests such as xyllela fastidiosa in southern italy or asian long-horned beetle in the uk would be much more difficult. also the new measures for quarantine will be tailor-made for each case and farmers would be supported in the eradication procedures also receiving compensation for their losses. the introduction of a plant passport is also an innovation brought in by this regulation which would ensure a high degree of traceability.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation regarding the adoption of protective measures against pests of plants.
in writing. ‒ plant health is very important for plant production, public and private green spaces, natural ecosystems, ecosystem services and biodiversity in the eu. therefore, strengthening prevention, surveillance and rapid action measures in the event of outbreaks of plant pests within the eu is of major importance, starting from detection of eu quarantine pests in areas where they were not known to be present, surveillance, early eradication of new pest outbreaks, public information on the economic, social and environmental impact of plant pests, correlated with financial support for undertakings and competent phytosanitary authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ plant health is a matter of the utmost concern for the european union and the common agricultural policy (cap), which supports the sustainable development of the agriculture, horticulture and forestry sectors. the main threat in these sectors is represented by pests, which are insects, fungi, bacteria or viruses that can cause significant damage to crops, especially when they come from other continents. to this end, the european institutions may regulate the treatments required to increase the resistance of native plants or may require more rigorous controls to be carried out on plants coming from other geographical areas. this last category of measures can provide very effective protection against the spread of harmful organisms and plant diseases. the commission has therefore proposed a higher level of plant import security, depending on the risks involved in each case. for imports of lower risk plants, it was proposed to include the introduction of plant passports to avoid any possibility of spreading pests. in extreme cases, temporary bans, compulsory phytosanitary certificates and contingency plans for emergencies are provided for. i support the adoption of this necessary report.
in writing. ‒ i support the report as it clearly focuses on the need to increase investment in the eu in order to create more growth, convergence, quality jobs and fight poverty and inequality. hence, i strongly support the introduction of the social imbalance procedure into the economic coordination and the proposed european minimum income framework to fight social exclusion in the eu. the eu and the member states need to better implement the revised economic policy mix, which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policy objectives including quality employment, education, innovation and growth enhancing policies. the single market is a pillar of the eu economy, therefore i am in favour of an inclusive single market, with enhanced governance, which favours better regulation and competition, which i believe is a crucial instrument to improve growth, cohesion, employment and competitiveness and to preserve the confidence of the business sector and consumers. the commission should monitor the progress made by the member states, the formal inclusion of the single-market pillar in the european semester is very important to enable continuous monitoring of single-market indicators, allowing for systematic follow-up and assessment of member states’ progress on csrs.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union and the member states should better implement the revised economic policy mix which aims at increasing investment linked to eu2020 policies objectives (more growth, convergence, quality jobs and fight poverty and inequality).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination that calls for the implementation of sustainable reforms to improve growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness following the slow growth rates of only 1.8% for the eu in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2016. in its 2016 country specific recommendations, the commission paid particular attention to the three priorities to further strengthen economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, development and job creation, achieving socially balanced structural reforms and encouraging the responsible management of public finances. a number of country-specific recommendations support a functioning and integrated single market, including the creation of financing and investment opportunities that foster the development of enterprises and in particular smes, contributing to job creation, the smooth functioning of e-government, public procurement and mutual recognition, including the mutual recognition of qualifications. however, more efforts are needed from the commission to support the sustainability of public finances in line with the stability and growth pact, making full use of its flexibility clauses. we call on the commission to prioritise measures that reduce the obstacles to larger investment flows, obstacles which at eu level are caused by a lack of clarity on the strategies to be pursued, in particular in the following areas: energy, transport, communications and the digital economy.
in writing. ‒ i am in support of the report as it addresses the challenges facing europe in the context of the global economic slowdown. firstly, it recognises the importance of coherence between european union’s framework on economic governance and policy instruments to strengthen cohesion among member states in the eu by reducing regional development disparities of the member states. secondly, the report stresses that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in completing the single market are depriving the eu of its full growth potential which is imperative given the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the divergences in the economic and social performance in different parts of the union. thirdly, i am in full support of the report’s confirmation and welcome of the agreement of the paris climate conference (cop21) in december 2015 and its call on the member states and the commission to implement it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2016. it also includes the opinion of the regional development committee, which recommends the use of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) in a complementary and additional way to the esi funds, so that the full potential of public and private investment can be exploited and a fairer geographical balance ensured.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids (trans fats) are a type of unsaturated fatty acids that have been widely used in the food industry since the 1950s. they are added to foods because they enhance the texture of processed foods and increases their shelf life, or as a cheap alternative to other fats. there is now broad scientific consensus that high consumption of trans fats significantly increases the risk of coronary heart disease, and may also be associated with other diseases. industrial trans fats are the single most dangerous nutrient for heart health, and adding them to processed foods isn’t necessary. therefore they should be banned eu-wide, just as they already have been in denmark, austria, latvia and hungary. the commission must come forward with legal limits as soon as possible, because it has the potential to save tens of thousands of lives annually.
in writing. ‒ trans-fatty acids (tfas) are a type of unsaturated fats that are uncommon in nature but became commonly produced on an industrial scale from vegetable fats to be used for producing margarine, snack food, packaged baked goods and frying fast food. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that reiterates the concern of the risks posed by tfas to human health.
in writing. ‒ industrially produced fatty acids are most often used in cheap food, directly affecting people with low incomes, who are much more at risk of developing cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's, diabetes and obesity. i believe that the imposition of mandatory limits on industrially produced fatty acids, linked in particular to the consumption of industrially produced partially hydrogenated oils, means more attention to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ trans fats cause heart disease, and heart disease is one of europe’s biggest killers. that’s why in this resolution the european parliament is calling for eu-wide legal limits on industrial trans fats in foods. this policy has already been tested elsewhere. we know it works, and we know it saves lives. the solid medical evidence for the harmful effects of trans fats is in stark contrast to the low public awareness about the dangers of this macronutrient. so we need to act now, with legislation, to improve public health across europe and especially to protect those vulnerable sub groups of the population who have greater exposure to industrial trans fats in processed food and fast food. i call on the european commission to act as quickly as possible and to make the necessary legislative proposals to protect public health.
in writing. ‒ protecting the health of its citizens is one of the european union's priorities. in these circumstances, the regulation of the content of food marketed in the union is of paramount importance. one compound that has raised concerns in recent years is fatty acids used in the food industry to alter the texture of foods, to extend shelf life or as a more convenient alternative to other fats. studies by international experts have found that high consumption of fatty acids increases the risk of coronary heart disease and may cause other conditions. since four member states (denmark, austria, hungary and latvia) have decided to limit the fatty acid content of food by law, which has resulted in the saving of lives, it is necessary to adopt limitation measures at european level. even the world health organization has recommended the elimination of partially hydrogenated vegetable oils, which are part of the fatty acid category, and in the united states, they will be banned starting in july 2018. in this context, it is necessary to restrict the use of these compounds at an early stage, with a view to their eventual prohibition. i support this resolution.
the next item is the debate on the annual report of the court of auditors - 2015 [2016/2839 ((rsp)) ] i would like to take this opportunity to welcome mr klaus heine-lehne, who is a long-time colleague of ours and currently the president of the court of auditors. welcome to the club! i also welcome vice-president georgieva kristalina, who is a regular here in parliament.
thank you, mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors. i also want to thank the one who has been president so far, because he has started to do things, i think, very positive and i congratulate you on this office. i think what has been started so far must be continued, the error rate is important, it is an important indicator, but we must also look at the results. special reports are a very positive thing and they are very useful. perhaps if you took exactly the method of the special reports and inserted an article, a chapter in your regular budget discharge reports, it would be something that would bring a plus to these reports. of course, your controls should be based on risk first, and differentiate between error and fraud. on the other hand, i think that the reports should be complete even if things can go well, then it should be said in these reports that it is well. maybe you also look at the contribution in kind and the property rights and maybe based on all of these things you make and simplification proposals. and one last thing, you were a member of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs, maybe you can do something this year with the discharge for the council, because not granting discharge for a large number of years without any consequence whatsoever jeopardises, i think, the credibility of this process. (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – this intervention is an answer. i did not see a question in this intervention. did you see one?
blue-card answer. – of course. they know very well how they make all the verifications. they cannot check 1 000 billion in seven years, so i think that for the moment they are doing a good job. they have to improve it, of course.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer on eu policies and actions to protect children in the context of migration, addressed to the commission (o-000126/2016 - b8-1804/2016) (2016/2954 ((rsp)).
i am very glad that this item has been included in the debate and that we are talking explicitly about children as vulnerable persons. i have heard the commissioner say that the plan is ready and that it is now being implemented. so let us hope that it will also be implemented and fulfilled, not just debated, and let me make a few comments. from what the commissioner has said, i think that the commission should put more emphasis on fighting organised crime, where children are the victims of organised crime. it has happened here several times, thousands of children have disappeared, sadly a sad statistic, and more needs to be done to make the european institutions, the judicial authorities and the individual member states fight this extremely dangerous crime more, to make the eu interior ministers talk about this more in their councils, to make this issue not go away. the subject of asylum procedures was also mentioned. i personally think that children need to be given special conditions. in short, well, the policy of returning children to their countries of origin is, in my opinion, ethically very difficult, especially if the child spends a few months or years in europe and suddenly they have to be returned. rather than debating the centralized asylum process, i think the european commission should be addressing how to allow children who are in europe for a certain period of time to stay in europe, how to integrate them into european society and give them an education. i think that's the most appropriate and best thing we can do for them. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. so this is, of course, a very serious, pressing issue of analogy in criminal law. when someone is 17 and commits a crime and then they're 19, they commit a crime under different circumstances. in short, transitional rules should be set for those who are close to the age of majority, so that there is no real breakthrough at 18 and that completely different rules apply to these people. as i said, if someone of a young age is in europe, then unless there are absolutely clear compelling reasons, then they should be integrated, not returned, and it is up to the commission to set those rules.
blue-card question. – ms vautmans, do you not think that we ought to call immediately on the commission to adopt a clearly defined and measurable policy framework, a clear mechanism – i might even call it a special mechanism – with a view to employing a comprehensive approach to prevent violence, exploitation and abuse, and strengthen protection systems for the most vulnerable, especially for children?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i will first express my group’s gratitude for the manner in which all political groups were cooperating yesterday in order to adopt swiftly a very balanced and a very serious piece of positioning ourselves under situation in mosul in the northern part of iraq. and, once again, our gratitude to all. the fight for mosul shows a quick territorial win for the iraqi-led coalition forces. mosul is more than a symbol. it is a decisive step in our effort to defeat daesh. this being said, this is foreseen to be a long-lasting operation and our absolute priority is to protect the civilians. we have to ensure that they will not remain trapped in mosul under heavy gunfire and bomb attacks, and they are not used as human shields by daesh. we have to ensure that the military on all fronts will open humanitarian corridors for the citizens and idps that flee the fighting. therefore my group calls on all parties to abide by international humanitarian law, to respect principles of proportionality and distinction, and to take all precautions to minimise casualties and to ensure that civilians and civilian infrastructure will be protected, like schools and hospitals, and then they will not be bombed. the evidence of the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by daesh should be preserved as a fundamental priority in order to ensure accountability for the perpetrators. with mosul the daesh scourge could be largely vanished in iraq, but daesh is just a symptom of a larger problem in the middle east. until there is a political accommodation between shia and sunnis in iraq and in the region we will not achieve peace in syria and the terrorism will remain. finally, it is important to take this opportunity to express our full support for the sovereignty, territorial integrity of iraq. and then the dramatic need, after daesh, of a strategy which will involve further humanitarian aid, the re-establishment of the governance, basic services such as healthcare, electricity and education, but also guarantee for the safe return and reintegration of refugees and idps, the protection of vulnerable minorities, and the political participation of all religious minorities.
madam president, the epp group has insisted on putting the debate on the situation in mosul on the agenda because, apart from the primary issue of the fight against daesh, this is an extremely delicate humanitarian situation. indeed, more than 200,000 people could be displaced in the coming weeks. our top priority must be to protect these populations during the battle, especially vulnerable communities such as christians, the vast majority of whom have fled their homeland. the christians, as well as the yazidis and turkmens, must not only be allowed to return to their homes but also to participate in the political and social life of the city. the plight of civilians is all the more worrying as the un has received reports of the atrocities that daesh fighters are committing. in fact, they're using civilians as human shields. the battle for mosul is decisive for the future of iraq and the visit of the iraqi foreign minister to brussels last week is a clear signal of the importance of eu assistance in preparing for the post-conquest. even if it does not provide military support, the union must play a key role in the humanitarian and stabilisation of the country, in close cooperation with our partners, in particular the united states. the union's strategy towards iraq has set the right priorities: the destruction of explosive devices and support for the security services and the rule of law. the commission is now proposing to speed up their implementation. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr schaffhauser, we have asked around. we also spoke with very prominent religious figures. unfortunately, we don't see ourselves in their position, which is delicate when they support people like bashar al-assad in syria. the protection of christian communities cannot go hand in hand with the support of dictators or friends of dictators, including your great friend vladimir putin.
mr president, the chances are very high that mosul will be retaken from islamic state. however, there is much uncertainty about the battles that will follow. the coalition should take extreme care that mosul does not become another aleppo, which is being bombed to the ground by syrian and russian forces. once is control of the city has weakened, there will also be an exodus of hundreds of thousands of civilians, and i fear that not enough has been done to prepare for this. for the future, much will depend on avoiding an armed free-for-all by rival militias and preventing a shia takeover of the sunni population of the city. every care should be taken, already at this stage, that the battle will lead a real advance in the fight against the nihilism of jihad.
as my colleagues have said tonight, we have some good news from belarus, namely two opposition candidates who have entered parliament. i don't know if they won, if they were put there, if they were allowed to win, but probably the last one is the true one. it is also true that the elections were not free and fair. now we are in this situation where we want to expand democracy and take belarus into this zone of democracy, for the interest of the european union and our security and for the interest of the citizens of belarus. we must, however, be very careful. we must have a point of view, how shall i say, a very critical friendship with belarus and constantly draw attention to the limitation of human rights. the press is still on edge. of course, political prisoners were also released, but on the other hand, belarus certainly plays an important role in russia-ukraine relations. so we want belarus to come into our sphere, into democracy, but we have to be very careful and check absolutely everything lukashenko says and does.
madam president, the fact that reporters without borders in their survey of 180 countries rank turkey in 150th place is very telling. even vladimir putin’s russia fares better in this regard. turkey has 130 journalists in jail, 70 of them on charges related to the failed coup in july. journalists are harassed, and the accusations range from ‘insulting the president’ to plain ‘terrorism’. in addition, as the government has been exercising emergency powers after the failed coup, there is virtually no possibility of checking mr erdoğan’s crackdown on perceived adversaries from the media, universities or public service. the eu has to be clear that such practices cannot be accepted from a country that holds accession talks with it. the persecuted journalists expect no less from us.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you very much for this useful exchange. i thank all the honourable members for their interventions. as i said at the beginning, this is not a new situation but it is a worrying situation. this is the second debate that we have had during this mandate about the freedom of the media in turkey and what is happening now is totally unacceptable. as i said at the beginning, free, diverse and independent media is essential in any democratic society. without freedom of expression and freedom of the media an informed, active and engaged society is impossible. as you have underlined here, this is not only about the punishment of the journalists. i was very happy to see many former journalists in this house, as i was one in my previous life, but i also think that it is the duty of all of us as politicians to fight, not only for the journalists but also for the elected people, the members of parliament, for the professors, the universities and for the mayors. so i think it is very important to address this issue. as i said at the beginning, i can assure you that the commission addresses the issues raised here with the turkish authorities at every engagement and continuously expresses concerns about the significant shortcomings affecting human rights in turkey. we urge turkey urgently to act to defuse a tense political climate which creates an environment restricting freedom of speech. these circumstances make continued engagement and a constructive dialogue with turkey more critical than ever. in any case the commission continues to believe that the accession process is the best framework for advancing reforms in turkey. advancing the preparatory work towards opening chapters 23 and 24, on fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security, would be important as it will provide turkey with a comprehensive roadmap for enforcing these essential areas, including press freedom. parliament adds, of course, a significant contribution to the debate on turkey and we very much value this opportunity for an exchange of views. finally, i have also noted and welcome the presence here tonight of a turkish journalist, can dündar, a prominent voice in the turkish debate, and i would like to add his name in honour of the others who are in jail or who have suffered or been assassinated. so in this matter we, the commission and parliament, are working hand in hand. i would like just to inform you that the commission will issue a country report early in november. until now it has been called a progress report, but it is obvious that we cannot speak about a progress report in the case of turkey. all your opinions will of course be taken into consideration when the commission issues this country report.
in writing. turkey has a longstanding relationship with the european union, being a strategic partner for both the union and nato, ensuring stability in the area. today, however, democracy in this candidate state is under threat. the failed coup attempt, which i strongly condemn, has become a pretext for resorting to excesses against the rule of law. the situation of journalists in turkey is a recurring topic on turkey's european agenda, as it has deteriorated a lot in recent years, not just after 15 july. freedom of expression is one of the fundamental values of the union, which the turkish authorities must ensure, including media pluralism, free access to content on the internet - currently blocked - and transparent procedures for each judicial case (taking into account that 130 journalists and writers have been arrested or charged). i therefore call on the turkish authorities to put an end to the arbitrary deprivation of liberty of journalists and media workers, fully restore justice and ensure the rule of law.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to address the issues of nuclear security and non-proliferation. the vice-president/high representative is in the dominican republic at a very important conference for latin america. i will begin my remarks by saying that first of all, the risk of terrorists releasing nuclear or radiological materials needs to be taken into account in our overall efforts to prevent terrorist attacks. responsibility for ensuring nuclear security lies with national governments, but international cooperation in this area is and will remain crucial. the eu is strongly committed to ensuring the highest level of nuclear security, both in europe and worldwide. i have said before, during our debate on belarus, what we are doing, and we are very much concerned about what is happening in this field. the commitment of the eu to nuclear security and the progress achieved in recent years are described in detail in a joint staff working document issued on 9 march 2016 entitled ‘eu efforts to strengthen nuclear security’. allow me now to briefly highlight some of the eu policies and actions. as regards the legislative framework, the euratom treaty continues to be the basis of the eu’s activity on nuclear issues. through euratom, the eu operates an effective regional nuclear safeguard system, which includes nuclear material accountancy, verification through onsite inspections, regular reporting, and technical and scientific support for the eu member states. all this in close cooperation, of course, with the international atomic energy agency. the eu can claim major credit for promoting the entry into force, in may this year, of the crucial 2005 amendment to the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material. all 28 eu member states, as well as euratom, have ratified the amendment and the european external action service has conducted diplomatic outreach on behalf of its entry into force. the european union will continue to help states to fully implement the provisions of the amended convention and the atomic energy agency to promote universal adherence to it. in the area of combatting illicit trafficking of nuclear and radiological materials, the eu has supported the effective implementation worldwide of un security council resolution 1540 through financing and capacity building. we have established a network of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear centres of excellence, which today counts 54 partner countries in eight regions of the world, with about 50 projects funded and around 300 people trained. it is funded under the instrument contributing to stability and peace, in accordance with the eu cbrn action plan of 2010. the eu supports the central role of the international atomic energy [agency], and international cooperation for improving the level of nuclear security worldwide, and is looking forward to the international conference on nuclear security being organised from 5 to 9 december 2016 in vienna. turning now to nuclear non-proliferation, the new eu global strategy, unveiled in june this year, confirmed that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems remains a growing threat to europe and the wider world. the european union will strongly support the expanding membership, universalisation, full implementation and the enforcement of multilateral disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control treaties and regimes. we will use every means at our disposal to assist in resolving the proliferation crisis as we successfully did on the iranian nuclear programme. more specifically, i would like to mention two major treaties, the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty, as well as a couple of regional issues. the european union and its member states agree on the importance of upholding and strengthening the authority and integrity of the npt which has contributed to international peace, security and stability for more than 40 years. we call for the implementation of all obligations and commitments assumed under the treaty or undertaken during the previous review conferences. the european union has been and remains a strong supporter of the ctbt and its organisation and is working towards the entry into force of the treaty. of course, all 28 member states have ratified this treaty, and together with all the member states in this 20th anniversary year of the treaty’s opening for signature, the european union is conducting a number of actions promoting the treaty and its organisation, based on an action plan adopted at the beginning of the year. the european union welcomes the recent un security council resolution 2310 which urges all states that have either not signed or ratified this treaty to do so without further delay as it is an important step forward towards the entry into force of the treaty. i warmly welcome the act that in june this year parliament’s committee on foreign affairs (afet) held an exchange of views on this treaty, with the participation of the executive secretary mr zerbo and of course high representative mogherini. finally, turning to some regional proliferation issues, the european union has played a key role in the negotiations leading to the nuclear deal with iran, the joint comprehensive plan of action, and we have already issued three reports confirming that iran is sticking to its nuclear commitments. high representative mogherini, as coordinator of the joint commission, is playing a key role in the implementation of the deal. the eu condemns in the strongest possible terms all the nuclear and ballistic tests conducted by north korea. achieving complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation of the korean peninsula in a peaceful manner is essential for maintaining peace and stability on the korean peninsula and in north-east asia at large. thank you for your attention, and i am looking forward to our debate.
on behalf of the enf group. the nuclear security agenda is much more than the agreement signed last year with iran. while the european union is claiming a decisive victory over the authorities in tehran, we must not lose sight of the overall security picture, which often indicates that brussels' concerns remain disproportionate. we forget that the success story of the european union's relationship with iran is overshadowed by unconventional nuclear exercises taking place in different parts of the globe, asymmetric and hybrid wars, cyber threats and acts of terrorism. added to this are the inconclusive results of the last nuclear security summit in washington a few months ago, where iran was one of the biggest absentees. i think that this agreement is presented in a favourable light for the european union, but it is only a momentary success, when in fact the situation is incomplete and biased. it is now 46 years since the ratification of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, and what was achieved last year remains only a relative and highly publicized victory.
madam president, i must apologize for having prepared my speech in english without knowing that you were to be chairing this sitting. i welcome the agreement reached on this resolution but, at the same time, i would like to express my deep concern at the many nuclear threats that are arising in different parts of the world. north korea continues to reject un security resolutions and to conduct nuclear tests. this is not tolerable and has to be condemned by all means. russia has deployed short-range missiles (the so-called iskander missiles) in the kaliningrad area and, possibly, in crimea. this deteriorating situation is extremely dangerous for the security of the atlantic area for europe, especially in the north and in the black sea region. the fact that they believe they have the right to deploy nuclear weapons in europe in these two areas - in the north and in the south - represents a serious global threat to europe and to the european union. the european union, together with nato, should respond accordingly.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, before going to my closing remarks on this issue, i would like just to reiterate the solidarity of the commission with italy and the italian people who this evening, in less than two hours, were hit by two very strong earthquakes. as the commission, as part of regional policy, we are in contact with the italian authorities and i can assure you that we will do whatever it takes in order to help after this new tragedy which hit italy again this evening. on the issue we are talking about, thank you for this exchange of views. let me assure you that, in line with the new global strategy, the european union will continue strongly to support the universalisation and effective implementation of multilateral disarmament, non—proliferation and arms control treaties and regimes. the european union will also actively participate in export control regimes, strengthen common rules governing member states’ export policies on military equipment and technologies, including dual use, and support export control authorities in the third countries and technical bodies that sustain the international regimes. eu member states remain committed to the pursuit of nuclear disarmament, in accordance with article 6 of the non—proliferation treaty. all non—proliferation treaty states parties are committed to pursuing policies that are fully compatible with the treaty and the objective of achieving a world without nuclear weapons. the european union also recalls the commitment of the five nuclear weapon states to accelerate concrete progress on the steps leading to nuclear disarmament in a way that promotes international stability, peace and undiminished and increased security. we encourage the continuation of meetings between the nuclear weapon states on all three pillars of the treaty to address confidence-building, transparency, verification, reporting and the implementation of the commitment made at the 2010 non-proliferation treaty review conference. we recall the special responsibility of the two states with the largest nuclear arsenals. we look forward to ensuring a successful outcome of the 2020 review conference.
in writing. – nuclear weapons continue to be a threat. they are used as instruments of intimidation and blackmail. the news from moscow about the nuclear missile satan2, confirms this reality and the fact that old habits do not die. it is not a coincidence that the destructive power of such a weapon is described thus: ‘it can destroy a surface as big as texas or france’. that’s why we have major credibility problems in relation with countries like russia, which are expected to be pillars of the international efforts for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. we do not have the reassurance that we are heading towards a more peaceful world any more. in a world where terrorism became a global threat and where we can see states, apparently solid, falling into chaos in just months, the presence of nuclear weapons and the risk of them ending up with forces willing to use them is unacceptable. for this reason, i consider that mentioning the need of reaching an agreement on establishing a nuclear-weapons-free-zone in the middle east is a must. nuclear weapons do not bring equilibrium and stability but the exact opposite. i strongly believe that diplomatic weapons are more powerful and more efficient than nuclear ones.
the reporter. madam president, this is the second report on artemis and eniac. in the spring, we postponed the discharge because the court of auditors issued a qualified opinion. as you know, the two joint ventures no longer exist at this time, they are merged into one, ecsel, which will continue to operate. the reason given by the court of auditors was that, due to the different regulations of these two joint ventures, it was not possible to calculate an error rate that was valid from the point of view of the european union rules, because the calculation of the error rate is made according to the national rules. in my opinion, this argument was not the best one to consider. i therefore postponed the discharge and instead asked the national auditors to certify whether the activities of the two joint undertakings were financially sound or not. and we have received such official documents from all the courts of account in the states that have worked with these two joint ventures, so we can now grant this discharge without any emotion, because there are documents to prove that the activity was financially correct. at e for energy it's a different situation. the international iter organisation presented an action plan for the next period, which was rejected by the commission and an external expert assessment was requested. that's why i've postponed the budget discharge - to see the outcome of this evaluation. this evaluation was carried out, the result was positive, the action plan was very little corrected, it was approved by the council of the iter international organisation and in this way we were able to propose the granting of discharge to the european union's home agency of this international organisation. i think iter is a project that we need to continue to pursue and support, because it can bring very great benefits to society as a whole even though it may require a little more money.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you for having given me the opportunity to take the floor during this year’s joint debate on the discharge for the european council and the council as well as the joint undertakings. the commission, as i said at the beginning, welcomes the proposal submitted by the committee on budgetary control to plenary to grant discharge to the joint undertakings, which have indeed made major improvements as regards their management and control systems. the commission will continue to provide them with advice and support on their efforts to address the concerns of the european parliament. let me remind you that ecsel gives europe a competitive edge in the domain of electronic components and systems and that iter is one of the most promising solutions to future energy demand and can contribute to addressing global warming and climate change. at the same time, the commission regrets that no solution could be found as regards the discharge to the council and european council. i can assure the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control that the commission remains at their disposal to answer any question which might help to smooth the future discharge procedure and to continue with close and fruitful cooperation.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i have taken note of your remarks in this debate. a few days ago, the new president of the european court of auditors rightly remarked that the trust of citizens in the eu is at stake. the eu institutions can build trust only by working together, not against one another. parliament can rely on the council’s sincere commitment to sound financial management. so therefore, let us work together in order to obtain the best possible result.
the reporter. madam president, mr minister, you have not made any comments on the three joint ventures, i understand that you have no comments, neither negative nor positive. let me also comment on the discharge of the council: the fact that for nine years absolutely nothing has happened, i.e. that there are no consequences for not granting discharge, seriously undermines the discharge procedure. i think, with the other institutions, it should happen. if nothing happens when the budget discharge is not granted, why do it? i'd like you to consider that comment. this year, for 2015, i am also rapporteur for the epp group. i think we have to come to a conclusion, because otherwise i don't know if it makes sense to continue to discharge the budget to the other institutions.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure first of all, i would like to congratulate silvia costa and all the colleagues who initiated this oral question. dear colleague, you have exemplified very well here what we need to increase volunteering. i personally disagree with what the commissioner said about complete subsidiarity. and i ask you: do you not think that, for example, at the level of the european union, there should be studies, examples of good practice, that can be disseminated in all the member states, where results have been obtained? for example, in my country there is a law of volunteering whereby volunteering is old-fashioned youth work.
madam president, the european year of volunteering 2011 represented a major political opportunity to highlight the added value of volunteering in europe. volunteering is one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, which promotes and facilitates social inclusion, builds social capital and produces a transformative effect on society. i believe it should be further strengthened through a legal framework, regulating a support mechanism and establishing appropriate organisational structures. member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers should do so as quickly as possible through the use of recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers. moreover, i support the call on the commission to facilitate the development of a more coordinated european volunteering policy, with a view to establishing a single contact point in the commission which would interconnect the individual initiatives and programmes, and improve access to volunteering programmes.
european voluntary service offers the opportunity to experience a form of social action which is unfortunately increasingly lacking in our time. voluntary contribution to the solution of social problems, support for the needy, was considered a natural form of social participation decades ago, whereas today it is considered in many cases a deviant social pattern. community involvement, free work for the community, is strengthening the very fabric of europe that has been weakened, made vulnerable and almost forgotten. volunteering, active citizenship, or as we call it in szeklerland, the kalákák, is much more important than we might think. volunteering is a way of investing in the future, especially in your own small community. it expresses confidence in the future of your community, willingness to do things for it, and the capacity for sacrifice. it is therefore important that as many european citizens as possible experience volunteering, and it is therefore very important that the european voluntary service is strengthened.
commissioner, the european voluntary service has a special role to play. by increasing volunteering, we can prepare young people for the future profession, we can increase solidarity, humanism, mutual knowledge of culture, interaction between rural and urban. volunteering should not only be promoted for the crisis situation, as is the case recently in italy; volunteering should be promoted in all areas: supporting the rehabilitation of tourist or cultural sites, assisting the elderly or people with disabilities. volunteering is a vocation, and this is something we need to promote in schools, in primary schools, in families, because only together, in solidarity, can we build a better society. that is why i believe, commissioner, that we must also start here, in the european parliament, with a greater construction and visibility of what we want through volunteering, and of course the member states have a special role to play in promoting volunteering in their countries.
commissioner, the evaluation of the european union youth strategy is extremely important, especially for what we want to do next. access to quality education and training for young people is important if we are to reduce the high unemployment rates in most member states. special measures must also be taken to integrate young women into the labour market. furthermore, young people with disabilities face additional barriers to integration into the labour market due to attitudes and lack of regulations to encourage companies to hire them. of course, there is a lot to be said for subsidiarity, but if we are talking about the single market, then we must also have european policies. much more funding is needed for formal and non-formal education, for vocational and dual education. i personally regret that in the 2017 budget the funds proposed by parliament for smes were reduced, because many of the smes are created by young people and the employees are young people. that is why, commissioner, the commission and the council must do much more in the policies designed to educate and integrate young people into the labour market.
commissioner, the common agricultural policy should lead to an increase in the number of people in employment, but we are seeing the opposite. in many countries, villages are depopulated, land is uncultivated, animal farms are closed because farmers are no longer motivated. unfortunately, we are importing toxic and poor quality products for european citizens because we have no trade defence policies towards third markets - as mr juncker admitted just yesterday. the common agricultural policy must be linked to other economic policies. to increase agricultural employment in rural areas, we need to have infrastructure development projects, we need to have markets, we need to have fair competition. the european commission must open up third markets for the sale of products. how can we have animal husbandry when milk sells for less than a litre of water, when producers cannot sell their products? the cohesion fund should be directed to the less developed areas. that is why i welcome the report, but it must not remain on paper.
the circumstances affecting the lives of farmers vary widely across member states and should therefore be taken into account when planning the future of the cap beyond 2020. while the average european farmer has 12 hectares of land, in romania, for example, the figure is only 3.6. if you look at the average size of the individual farmers, the average farm size, it's only two hectares. this figure is 56 hectares in germany, 54 in france, 79 in italy and 90 in the united kingdom. the disparities are therefore enormous, not to mention other aspects such as the existence of distribution networks, the creditworthiness of farmers or the technological possibilities available to them. the european farming model is based on food security and the balanced and sustainable development of rural areas. however, the achievement of these objectives is at risk in some member states.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of commissioner hogan, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr andrieu and the rapporteurs for opinion, ms lopez bermejo and ms kostinger, for this report. i would also like to thank the honourable members who contributed to this morning's debate on the report. this report is a very useful contribution to the debate about the way in which the agri-food sector can realise its potential to contribute to growth and job creation in the eu over the coming years, particularly in rural areas where employment opportunities are not as plentiful. just last month, more than 340 stakeholders, representing all shades of opinion and from all 28 member states, gathered in ireland and agreed on the cork 2.0 declaration entitled ‘a better life in rural areas’. i am particularly pleased to note that the european parliament was well represented at the conference. the document agreed is a shared blueprint for the development of rural areas and recognises the fundamental importance of agriculture, forestry and their related sectors for the economic and social development of viable rural areas and communities. the associated value chains of the agriculture and forestry sectors are engines of rural growth, providing jobs and livelihoods to tens of millions of europeans. the eu’s rural development policy plays a very important role in securing and creating jobs and growth in rural areas through investments in farm competitiveness, diversifying farm businesses, promoting innovative approaches, or fostering knowledge transfer. the unemployment rate in rural areas has shown a positive trend in recent years, with 2015 values already at the level of 2009. nonetheless, we can and must do more. for example, we need to significantly improve access to fast or ultra-fast broadband to allow rural areas to seize the opportunities of the digital society, like e-commerce. commissioner hogan is particularly focused on the issue of rural broadband and regards it as a priority for the further development of our rural communities. commissioner hogan has also stressed the value of adding value through the achievement of quality recognition for high-quality agricultural products. this recognition will increase the added value for primary producers and is essential for boosting exports and therefore maintaining and creating jobs. it is encouraging to see how interest in achieving such status is increasing. the cork 2.0 declaration recognises that bottom-up and locally-led initiatives should be rolled out to mobilise rural potentials. integrated and participatory local development strategies based on approaches like leader have proved their value and will be important to ensure dynamic rural areas as well as securing and creating jobs and growth. having created a vision for the development of rural areas and communities, one must make it happen, and that requires investment. therefore, facilitating access to finance is crucial to encourage investment and the setting up of new enterprises. we also need to think beyond traditional means of finance and credit, which are often not available to young entrepreneurs. the use of innovative financial instruments has enormous potential in this area as a means of having a positive effect on job creation in rural areas. indeed, the recent proposal accompanying the review of the mff specifically includes provision to make access to finance easier for young farmers. europe is the world’s biggest agri-food trading region, with record export levels achieved in 2015 of eur 129 billion, confirming the eu’s position as the world’s most important exporter of agri-food products. in the state of the union address, president juncker pointed out that trade means jobs. for every one billion euros of additional exports, 14 000 extra jobs are created across the eu, and more than 30 million jobs. one in seven of all jobs in the eu now depend on exports to the rest of the world. the eu is also the world’s biggest importer of agri-food products. it is closely involved in global value chains and needs to rely on stable trade relations and functioning global markets. the agri-food sector is the largest provider of employment in the eu, with 44 million people employed. many of the challenges quite rightly identified in the report can be addressed with the tools already available in the common agricultural policy, in particular under the rural development policy. but we need to constantly ask ourselves if the policy is fit for purpose and how we can do better. reflecting these questions, the commission will now consult widely on the modernisation and simplification of the cap, as included in the work programme for 2017 presented to this house on tuesday. i know that commissioner hogan welcomes and indeed looks forward to your suggestions. together with the recent cork 2.0 declaration, they could be used to identify consistent ways to boost jobs, growth and investment in rural areas for the benefit, not only of our rural communities, but for the european economy as a whole.
for nine years, parliament has not given a discharge to the council, and the council is acting as if nothing had happened. the board doesn't send us the documents to see how it spent the money. so there's a total lack of transparency in the council. the council also provides nothing for the costs of interpreters, travel, external costs, construction costs, maintenance costs, we have no council expenditure of any kind, and if we do not have it, neither does the population of the european union, nor do the citizens, and let us not forget, as we have said many times: it is the money of the european citizens. how long before the council wakes up? let them realise that trust in the european union comes first of all from trust in the council, in the member states, and at this moment there is no trust precisely because they are not transparent. how much longer does it take to help us all win it back, because we all suffer from a lack of trust in the council, which is totally opaque.
in writing. ‒ the institutions of the european union are obliged to operate in a transparent manner with the funds entrusted to them, being accountable to the citizens of the union. following its audit work, the court of auditors considered that the funds allocated to the two institutions, the european council and the council, had been spent in accordance with the existing needs, and no significant errors had been identified in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies concerned. however, i cannot but express my regret that the recommendations made by parliament regarding the separation of the budget of the european council and the council have not been implemented. i believe that there is still a need for close cooperation between parliament and the council for an effective budgetary control exercise. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii - european council and council, as i consider that the two institutions have managed the funds in a fair manner and in line with real needs.
in writing. ‒ discharge was refused, as it has been for several years now. parliament and the council continue to hold different legal views on the discharge procedure. the council does not recognise parliament’s authority but sees itself on the same level, as one of two arms of the eu budgetary authority. parliament’s interpretation of article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly distinguishes the two institutions’ roles – parliament being the authority which gives the discharge, whereas the council gives a recommendation on whether to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ each year the european parliament takes a decision, under the form of a recommendation by the parliament from the council, regarding the discharge for budget implementation through which it releases the commission from its responsibility on managing the given budget for a specific year by marking the end of its execution. i have voted for this report on the eu general budget for the european council and council 2014 discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by which the european parliament refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the resolution annexed to the report states that the ep regrets that the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity report and considers this inadmissible and detrimental to the reputation of the eu institutions. it also regrets that the budget of the european council and that of the council have not yet been separated, as recommended by parliament in its recent discharge resolutions. the european parliament considers that the lack of cooperation of the european council and the council with the discharge authority sends a negative signal to the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking has a key role, having been established in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the main objective of developing and implementing a research agenda to develop key competences in nanoelectronics for different application sectors. the checks carried out have demonstrated that the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking are true and correct as regards its financial position and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as i consider that the joint undertaking has managed the funds at its disposal in an efficient and transparent manner, continuously pursuing the purpose for which it was set up.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. i support the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i consider that compliance of the procedures implemented in the individual member states, in and of itself, guarantees the legality of transactions underlying the eniac accounts. i therefore welcome the fact that the national funding authority, at the request of itc ecsel (formed by the merging of eniac and artemis), has demonstrated that the regularity of transactions is guaranteed by the application of the national procedures. i am confident with regard to eniac’s intention to cover almost all of the total grants allocated to the individual states.
in writing. ‒ each year parliament makes a decision, following a recommendation from the council, regarding the discharge for budget implementation, through which its releases the commission from its responsibility for managing the given budget for a specific year by marking the end of its execution. i voted for the 2014 discharge in respect of the eniac joint undertaking, a public-private partnership focusing on nano-electronics.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was a public-private partnership in the field of nanotechnology, replaced in 2014 by the ecsel ju following a merger with the artemis ju. following the plenary decision to postpone the discharge for eniac in april this year, the jv provided further assurances regarding the implementation of national procedures to ensure the legality and regularity of operations. in this context, i support the discharge to be given to the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking has a key role, having been set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the main objective of developing and implementing a research programme to develop key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and facilitating the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the audits carried out have shown that the artemis joint undertaking has accounts which fairly present the financial position and the results of its operations and the cash flows for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as i consider that the joint undertaking has managed the funds at its disposal in an efficient and transparent manner, continuously pursuing the purpose for which it was set up.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. i support the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the assurance systems of the artemis member states are much more effective than the sufficient threshold. i am confident artemis will adopt measures related to the internal control standards on financial information. however, the merger company established an appropriate audit and internal control structure.
in writing. ‒ each year the european parliament takes a decision, following a recommendation from the council, regarding the discharge for budget implementation, through which its releases the commission from its responsibility for managing the given budget for a specific year by marking the end of its execution. i voted for the 2014 discharge for the artemis joint undertaking, an association for embedded systems operators in europe, representing the research community including industry, universities and research institutes.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was a public-private partnership in the field of integrated systems technology, replaced by ecsel ju in 2014. the commission has also received comments from the goc, the goc's representative in the council, the goc's representative in the commission and the goc's representative in the union. in this situation, i again express my support for the granting of discharge. i believe that joint ventures bringing together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships make a substantial contribution to supporting research, new technologies and demonstration activities, accelerating the market introduction of specific technologies.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years, with euratom, represented by the commission, euratom member states and third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion as members of the joint undertaking. the checks carried out have established that the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy has accounts which fairly present the financial position and the results of its operations and the cash flows for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, as i consider that this undertaking has managed the funds at its disposal in an efficient and transparent manner, continuously pursuing the purpose for which it was set up.
in writing. ‒ joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, new technology and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion. i support the joint undertakings in their many areas of work which are of clear benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) is an international nuclear fusion research project. the experimental reactor will be able to produce more energy than the priming process would consume. given that, the quantity of fuel in the reactor (approximately 1 gram as against 100 tons in fission) is very limited, and in the event of a malfunction, the plasma is turned off without any risk. i welcome the position of the iter council on keeping risks at a minimum. i welcome, too, the fact that an action plan has been presented and an updated schedule approved. the planned programmes for implementation of the project are widely respected: we are moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ each year the european parliament takes a decision, following a recommendation from the council, regarding the discharge for budget implementation, through which it releases the commission from its responsibility for managing the given budget for a specific year by marking the end of its execution. i voted for the 2014 discharge in respect of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. ‒ in april this year, the discharge for the iter joint undertaking, a public-private partnership in the field of fusion energy, was postponed. given that the long overdue iter action plan was subsequently published, all the conditions were met for iter to be granted discharge. in this context and underlining the importance of the areas concerned, such as air traffic control and nanotechnology, i am voting in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ mosul is a city of significant strategic importance to isis, having been captured by the terrorist group in 2014. iraqi forces have launched an offensive to regain control of mosul, but this is facing difficult obstacles, given that suicide bombing is one of the most common strategies used by isis. this offensive could generate a humanitarian crisis of scale, as civilians are faced with a stark choice between two equally dangerous options, because if they choose to stay in the city, they risk being used as human shields, and if they leave mosul, they risk being targeted by isis. the situation in mosul can only cause us concern and make us react to ensure that security conditions are in place so that all those who have been forced to leave the country can enjoy protection and humane living conditions. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that now more than ever we need the solidarity of all european institutions and actors to express our support for the civilian population of mosul.
in writing. ‒ the launch of the mosul operation is crucial in the campaign to defeat daesh. we must strongly support the global coalition against daesh, which has played a major role in the preparation and conduct of this operation. the european union is an important part of this coalition and, in these critical times, must stand firmly by the iraqi authorities and the iraqi people. during the mosul campaign the protection of the civilian population must be prioritised. it is fundamentally important that international humanitarian law should be observed in full and that efforts are made to guarantee the protection of the civilian population. i strongly support the stabilisation process after military operations and the focus, in particular, on the removal of so-called ieds (improvised explosive devices), which is a pre-condition for the return of internally displaced people.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the iraqi army’s offensive to liberate mosul from daesh, as well as any anti-daesh coalitions working towards the same end. iraq is, and should be treated as, a sovereign state that must have full territorial integrity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the operation to liberate the town of mosul in northern iraq, reaffirming the eu’s strong support for iraq’s independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe it is very important to support the military operations being carried out by the iraqi army against daesh at this time. the battle to retake mosul is very hard, as we can see from the images transmitted by sources on the ground, and will probably continue for a long time. at the same time, all necessary steps must be taken to protect civilians in the city and those who have managed to escape from daesh control. i believe that the eu and the international community must continue to support iraq in this fight and increase their financial support for the un's efforts to protect civilians.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist phenomenon has seen new heights of cruelty and violence directed against civilians after the emergence and expansion of the islamic state in the middle east. this diabolical experiment is now affecting the entire international community, including the member states of the european union. in response to this new threat, member states decided to support the efforts of the international coalition against the islamic state, with the stated aim of eliminating this structure, which is so disadvantageous to the people of syria and iraq. in these circumstances, the european institutions can only welcome the launching of the offensive in northern iraq to free the city of mosul from the occupation of the islamic terrorists. this action will restore the legal sovereignty of the iraqi state over its territory, whose integrity the eu recognises, subject to respect for the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, as well as the kurdish regional government. however, this military intervention must take into account the rules of international humanitarian law and human rights law in order to protect the civilian population. the present resolution correctly expresses the position of the eu and its citizens on the conflict in iraq. that is why i support its immediate adoption.
madam president, i also supported this resolution, which concerns the protection of human rights and democracy in the world. i am glad that there is a clear criticism of turkey and the situation regarding freedom of speech and media independence in this country. i sometimes feel that some european leaders and the european union are too lenient with turkey, and that especially after the current administration deals with the "coup d'état" and responds to it in a very disproportionate and repressive way, i think we cannot remain silent. we must make it clear that the situation of freedom of expression is crucial for us and that at a time when more than two thousand journalists have been released in turkey, around a hundred journalists are detained awaiting trial and 150 media outlets have been closed, this situation is completely unacceptable and turkey is moving away from europe rather than closer to europe and therefore it is difficult to talk about visa-free travel and strengthening our cooperation.
in turkey, the situation is very worrying. there are many, many journalists who are in prison. in the reporters without borders press freedom rankings, turkey ranks 151 out of 180 countries, so it's at the bottom of the list. moreover, the totalitarian tendencies of the regime in ankara are accentuated after the coup attempt. i understand that the ruling party will send constitutional amendments to parliament; they will give increased powers to the president, that is, it is going towards dictatorship. we now know, on the other hand, that turkey is an important partner of the european union in nato and in the refugee crisis. but we have to have a partnership based on values, we cannot accept everything from turkey just because we need turkey to stop sending refugees to the european union. so let's have a partnership where turkey also meets its obligations.
in writing. ‒ following the attempted coup on 15 july 2016, the turkish authorities have arrested academics, students, members of the opposition and many others. media outlets have also been targeted. the kurdish minority has been particularly affected. i think we should remind the turkish authorities that emergency decrees should not be used as a pretext to facilitate serious human rights violations, to silence dissent and to close down media outlets, as a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy and remains central to the functioning of a peaceful and open society. the recent police raids and the detention of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey must be strongly condemned, as these actions undermine the freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the freedom of the media, a core principle of democracy, should be upheld in turkey. any countries attempting to join the ascension process to the european union should protect such values and principles. as such, the detention of media representatives in turkey is severely frowned upon.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution, which called for the end of negotiations regarding turkey’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution in my vote today because i thought it reflected a realistic approach to how we should look at events in turkey during the coup attempt and in the period since. of course, this coup attempt entitles the turkish state to take the necessary measures to identify the perpetrators and those who support them, but i have to stress the concern that extremely harsh, even violent, measures have been taken against a large number of journalists. i support the text of this resolution and hope that the turkish authorities will understand that freedom of expression, human rights and especially the right not to go to prison for lack of evidence are values that must be respected if turkey wants to remain a trusted democratic partner for the eu.
in writing. ‒ the role of a free press is fundamental in establishing transparency and accountability, especially in a critical situation like the one turkey is facing now. however, the breach in the freedom of expression of journalists, editors and media workers has gravely deteriorated, even prior to the coup d’état attempt that took place on 15 july. before the attempted coup, there were only a handful of independent media outlets remaining and numerous journalists imprisoned. following the event, even the last ones closed down: altogether 102 media organs were shut down by decree on 27 july 2016. furthermore, as of 14 september 2016 there were 101 journalists detained. i, together with the s&d group in parliament condemn the recent police raids and the detention of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey, underlining that these actions undermine the freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy, and one of the fundamental values of the european union.
madam president, i would like to say on this point that i supported the resolution in the end, but i hesitated for a long time and therefore i have to make a reservation here in explaining the vote. i have a particular problem with certain parts of the resolution, in particular paragraph 16, which mentions and very much welcomes the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme. i'm just skeptical that this deal will be fulfilled and i have a lot of reservations about the iranian regime. however, i did end up supporting the resolution because there are a whole host of other positive things in it, in my opinion, whether it's criticism of north korea and its constant threats of nuclear weapons. or that it is clearly alerted to the growing danger of a nuclear threat from russia, which, as we know, has been making a lot of threats with nuclear weapons lately. he even simulates military exercises, which simulate the use of nuclear weapons against poland, against central europe, and that's a big problem. so he finally has the support. but there's a big question mark with iran.
i have problems with iran... i mean the previous speaker. the security environment in the union's neighbourhood has deteriorated and become increasingly unpredictable. without saying too much, i truly believe that humanity is in danger. the nuclear non-proliferation treaty is the cornerstone of nuclear non-proliferation, but as we know, it has not been signed by all states, and in 2015, it has not succeeded. states that are not parties to this treaty are therefore not subject to the fundamental international obligations of non-proliferation. this treaty also presents the risk that it will be used against us, so its credibility is very low, as the treaty has not been signed by all states. russia currently has the largest arsenal in the world, and media reports have shown that russia has installed the nuclear-capable iskander missile system in the kaliningrad region, which is right next to the european union, specifically next to poland and lithuania. so we are in danger.
in writing. ‒ international security and stability are threatened by deteriorating relations between nuclear powers such as the united states and russia, as demonstrated by russia's suspension of the 2000 plutonium management and disposal agreement and ongoing tensions between india and pakistan. the deteriorating security environment around the european union raises the question of the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as a means of active deterrence, as well as of possible nuclear proliferation, which runs counter to the principles of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which underpin global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and secure use of civilian nuclear energy and to pursue the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation because i believe that every effort must be made to ensure a stable security environment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement reached on this resolution but i would like to express my deep concern for the many nuclear threats that are arising in different parts of the world. north korea continues to reject un security resolutions and to conduct nuclear test. this is not tolerable and has to be condemned by all means. russia has deployed short-range missiles to kaliningrad and, possible, in crimea. this deteriorated situation is extremely dangerous for the security of the euro atlantic area, especially in the black sea region. the fact that they believe they have the right to deploy nuclear weapons in these two areas represents a serious global threat and the european union should have to respond accordingly, in cooperation with nato.
in writing. ‒ it is important to uphold international peace, security and stability. this is crucial specifically in today’s deteriorating security environment from both a geopolitical and geostrategic perspective.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution, which supports the nuclear non-proliferation treaty which entered into force in 1970 through efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and promote the safe and secure use of nuclear energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider that the changes in the security environment around the world in general and around the eu in particular are worrying, leaving the possibility that nuclear weapons could once again become an argument for intimidation and negotiation. it is a worrying prospect for the future if it starts to be dominated again by debates about the nuclear capability of states and not focused on diplomatic approaches. the possibility of nuclear technology falling into the hands of terrorist groups or being held by states that do not respect any of the existing international agreements on the subject, are not reliable partners and behave unpredictably should also not be overlooked.
in writing. ‒ we are currently witnessing a considerable deterioration of the global security environment, not just the eu, generated by different regional and global actors, despite the eu's efforts in this area. moreover, international peace, security and stability are seriously affected, including by the deterioration of relations between nuclear-weapon states. as such, it is necessary to strengthen the core non-proliferation and disarmament objectives of the three pillars of the npt (non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation) for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. in this regard, the presentation of the eu's comprehensive strategy in this area is welcome, given that the eu has committed itself, through the strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction adopted by the european council on 12 december 2003, to using all the tools at its disposal to prevent, deter, halt and, if possible, eliminate proliferation programmes of global concern. clearly, for the eu to become the world's driving force in strengthening and continuing multilateral disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation agreements, the 2003 eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction needs to be updated and expanded.
in writing. ‒ nuclear security has been a topic of debate since the early stages of the cold war and continues to be a topic of great interest today. in this period, we are witnessing the deterioration of the european security environment, with old nuclear arms limitation treaties being denounced by some of the signatories, and international actors, state and non-state actors, resorting to the development and even the spread of these types of weapons with devastating impact on all humanity. in this context, it is precisely the more or less conventional nuclear threats that are endangering european and world peace that are being addressed. in these circumstances, the s&d group, in line with its political tradition at european level, is clearly in favour of curbing these dangerous trends and defending peace, security and stability on the european continent. the european parliament, as the guarantor of the security of the citizens it directly represents, must take a stand and condemn these deplorable acts, which serve no one's interests in the medium and long term. i support this resolution, which is of course necessary.
in writing. ‒ the european year of volunteering 2011 represented a major political opportunity to highlight the added value of volunteering in europe. volunteering is one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, which promotes and facilitates social inclusion, builds social capital and produces a transformative effect on society. i believe it should be further strengthened through a legal framework, regulating support mechanisms and establishing appropriate organisational structures. member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers should do so through the use the recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers. moreover, i support the call on the commission to facilitate the development of a more coordinated european volunteering policy with a view to establishing a single contact point in the commission, which would interconnect the individual initiatives and programmes and improve access to volunteering programmes.
in writing. ‒ a culture of volunteering is beneficial for society as it addresses civic and social concerns and contributes to a vibrant civil society, and in turn a healthy democracy. volunteering is above all a free choice, through which individuals can building solidarity with communities. it also has benefits at the communal level, in terms of building social capital and transforming society. therefore, i support this resolution’s call to create a legal framework that identifies the rights and responsibilities of volunteers and volunteering. such a framework will help protect volunteers and embed volunteering as a norm in society. this resolution as ultimately volunteering is the responsibility of the population. volunteering is a matter of human kind and calls for deeper investments should come primarily from citizens themselves. caring, sharing, helping and getting involved are much more than a choice, they are our duties as citizens, and they must be driven by our hearts and minds, from our human and financial resources.
in writing. ‒ the european voluntary services (evs) helps young people travel abroad to participate in volunteering projects whilst experiencing different cultures, making new friends and helping others learn new skills. i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the evs, which that recognises the expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that it offers.
in writing. ‒ i support this motion for a resolution on the creation of the european voluntary service because i believe that encouraging this type of civic service is actually an opportunity to develop human links that help social inclusion, understanding and acceptance of cultural differences between citizens. i believe that this form of informal learning plays a major role in developing open and tolerant societies, ready for the new challenges we face. in this respect, i support the idea that volunteering, which is practised by so many people across the european union, should be recognised as a learning and development activity and supported through specific programmes by both the european commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ volunteering has a value and importance as one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, which promotes and facilitates social inclusion, builds social capital and produces a transformative effect on society. volunteering contributes both to the development of a thriving civil society, which can offer creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, and to economic growth, and as such it deserves to be measured in a specific, targeted way in terms of both economic and social capital. i supported this report as i believe in the importance of providing a legal framework which identifies a volunteering status, with rights and responsibilities for volunteers and volunteering. moreover, i think it is a great idea for member states to establish adequately funded national voluntary service schemes and to improve access to quality information on volunteering opportunities at national and local level.
investing in young people means investing in the human capital of today and tomorrow. it's basically an investment in our future. with europe's ageing population, the future of young people is an urgent priority for us. we have to act accordingly and not just talk about it, as we have been talking about for a long time, but put into practice public policies, strategies, concrete plans that give them jobs, that take them out of the social passivity that has led to a kind of exclusion. there are over 8 million young people in europe today who are unemployed. the highest rates are in greece and spain, but there are many everywhere. moreover, this exclusion, lack of jobs and so on and lack of concrete measures for them also caused them to vote less than in other generations. i support this report because the union needs a policy that encourages the participation of young people first and foremost in the economy, so they need to enter entrepreneurship, which will further lead to their re-entry into society, which means social contribution, inventiveness, imagination, progress and taking the union forward.
in writing. ‒ the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 found that there are positive trends in education indicators, as a result of which early school leaving is declining, but youth unemployment has also declined in most member states. to build on these positive results, the youth policy 2010-2018 proposes eight areas of action to support young people and improve their quality of life. these are: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and quality of life, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth in the world, creativity and culture. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that young people are europe's most important resource and that the european institutions need to invest in them, continuing the union's youth strategy and continuing to respond actively to the challenges faced by young people.
in writing. ‒ one of europe's main assets, and one of the guarantors of the eu's future, is the human and social capital of young people. the european union has the role of coordinating, guiding and supporting member states' policies for young people. the renewed framework for european cooperation in the field of the eu youth strategy covers the period 2010-2018 and defines eight areas of action: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and quality of life, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth in the world, creativity and culture. there are positive trends in school dropout. the percentage for the 18-24 age group decreased from 13.9% in 2010 to 11.1% in 2014. the youth unemployment rate has dropped from 24% in february 2013 to 20% in november 2015, but things are not resolved. in total, there are 13.7 million young europeans who are neither in employment nor in education, and some 27 million young people are still at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i voted for the further development of youth projects and their support through the tools available to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe young people and youth organisations should be systematically involved in youth policy-making. european young people are facing today many different challenges such as youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. there is a need to channel investments into inclusive education with regards to ensure equal access and opportunities for all young people, including those having different socio-economic backgrounds as well as vulnerable and disadvantaged groups such as refugees, migrants and asylum-seekers. we should fight for a better recognition of the learning outcomes of skills acquired through non-formal and informal learning not only because they equip young people with the right set of competences and knowledge, but also because they contribute to the personal development and growth of learners in order to make them proactive, responsible and open-minded citizens.
in writing. ‒ having civil society, specifically young individuals and youth organizations, participate in youth policy—making is of great importance. the european institutions need to create a comprehensive plan in regards to education, equal opportunities and access. the youth are europe’s future, and they should be moulded into open-minded and responsible individuals.
in writing. ‒ the european youth strategy sets out a cooperation framework to achieve objectives such as specific youth initiatives, encouraging non-formal learning, participation, voluntary activities, youth work, mobility and information. i have voted for this report regarding the eu youth strategy between 2013-2015, which stresses the two main general priorities of facilitating the transition from school to the working world and fostering active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among young people, which still need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it gives an objective assessment of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 and very rightly underlines the importance of its continuation and development in the period ahead. i consider the continuation of the eu youth strategy a priority and i am convinced that investments in supporting young people, whether in education, finance or personal development, will ensure the development of our societies and economies in the future.
in writing. ‒ i would like to highlight one aspect of the situation of young people in the european union which has a very damaging impact on the societies of eastern europe: the emigration of young people from the countries of central and eastern europe. according to a study by the international monetary fund, since 1990 some 20 million young people have left these states and settled in western europe, losing about 16 percent of their population in romania and bulgaria. the problem is compounded by the fact that three quarters of those leaving the region were of working age, and 80 percent of those leaving romania were of this age. while these young people are useful members of western european societies through their work, they are sorely missed in their home countries, both economically and demographically. and emigration continues today, with temporary foreign employment often turning into permanent displacement. i am convinced that the only way to reverse these trends is to bring the economies of the countries of central and eastern europe up to speed, and the solution is to maintain and even strengthen the eu's cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the eu youth strategy is enhanced by the consideration of human and social capital as the foundation for the development of human society in general, given that the resource of competence, creativity and entrepreneurship is provided by young european citizens. starting from identifying the causes of youth unemployment and investing in education (formal, non-formal and informal), vocational training, health and employment, facilitating the transition to the labour market through coordinated local, regional, national, community (european) programmes, using the potential offered by new technologies and involving all national and european actors from all markets in the fulfilment of the two objectives of the youth strategy 2016-2018, we are offering the european union opportunities for sustainable development through proactive and responsible young europeans.
in writing. ‒ this report gives an overview of the european youth situation, the challenges that youth face in europe, such as unemployment, social inclusion and poverty, and some recommendations in order to improve the current state of affairs. moreover, the report identified targeted groups who are more likely to be unemployed and marginalised: young people with poor qualifications, neets and those with special needs, disadvantaged and lower socioeconomic backgrounds such as ethnic minorities, refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. the recommendations include investing in accessible quality education, improving cross-sectorial cooperation at all levels and notably between the different eu strategies that affect young people, drafting a new eu youth cooperation framework after 2018, investing in quality and secure jobs and in mobility schemes, especially in erasmus. i fully support this report, as i believe that the most important solution to the challenges that youth face in the european union is to invest in education and to involve youth in policymaking that will affect their future.
in writing. ‒ rural areas account for 77% of the territory of the european union and many jobs in these regions depend on agriculture and the agri-food industry. together, these industries account for 6% of the eu's gdp, comprise 15 million businesses and generate some 46 million jobs. in recent years, we have seen a drastic reduction in the number of farmers and a continuous decline in their income. between 2005 and 2014, the volume of agricultural labour decreased by almost a quarter. i voted for the development of the necessary instruments to modernise and ensure the competitiveness of economic sectors in rural areas in a sustainable and environmentally sound way. the development prospects of this sector are huge and the economies of the member states stand to gain from it.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe we need to make best use of the cap to counter the downward trend in agricultural and non-agricultural jobs over many decades in rural areas. diversification on farms, ensuring sustainable business development, and ensuring maximum opportunity and involvement of young farmers, women and other stakeholders in rural development are all key to building resilience in rural communities. ensuring basic services and connectivity all help retain people in the countryside and tackle depopulation and decline. ensuring cap tools are fit for these purposes is a continuing task for policy makers and all who put them in place and use them on the ground. finally, i welcome the strong focus on diversification, environmental aspects, organic and quality food systems, short food supply chains, and fairness in the supply chain for primary producers.
in writing. ‒ the cap is a good opportunity to re—launch the agricultural sector in europe, which has been spiralling downwards. the cap could bring in farm diversification, more opportunities and involvement for young farmers and a plan for sustainable business development.
in writing. ‒ in 1962 the common agricultural policy (cap) was introduced, implementing a system of agricultural subsidies and other programmes. i have voted for this report regarding the improvement of cap for the creation of new jobs in the rural areas that calls on member states to offer young farmers long-term prospects to address the issue of rural depopulation, stresses that a large part of cap direct payments are going to big farms and encourages the member states to step up their support for small and medium-sized farms.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the cap and how it can create quality jobs in rural areas, as it is a very important topic for romania as well. it is essential that the cap supports farmers and ranchers, but at the same time, a step forward is needed to increase support for job-creating investment. the problem of labour market supply in rural areas is one that we face in all member states, and romania is no exception. in a context where the area of agricultural areas is in constant competition with development and protected areas, i believe that the cap must support more the sustainable development of agriculture, always with a view to creating quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the rural area of the eu member states has been one of the hardest hit by the financial and economic crisis of recent years. it also created a false impression that in the future the rural area will not be as important, forgetting that it generates most of the food of the urban population. the common agricultural policy (cap) is designed to prevent this negative trend and to ensure the sustainable development of the areas concerned. in this context, the first pillar of the cap can help support high-employment sectors by helping to maintain rural producers. at the same time, coupled payments could be supplemented, with the introduction of a maximum ceiling of eur 150 000, in particular to support young entrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs. the second pillar of the cap can support rural development and job creation, including by encouraging rural tourism and other areas related to agriculture. this could avoid the current depopulation of rural areas, which would become more attractive to young entrepreneurs and better connected to the dynamics of the european economy. i support this laudable initiative.
madam president, as the s&d group's alternative rapporteur on the committee on the internal market, i have suggested to the committee on the rules of procedure a number of things from the perspective of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we have taken into account the fragmentation of the defence market and, of course, we have also considered the difficulties faced by smes in securing contracts in this industry which actually provide better defence. i asked the commission to assess whether the objectives of directive 2009/81 on the award of security and defence contracts had been achieved and to take the necessary measures with a view to its possible adaptation to the real needs of the defence market. i also suggested and encouraged the committee to strengthen research through funding in the defence sector. it is necessary because we are concerned about the decline in the budget for research and innovation in this area. and of course we think about the skills gap that can arise from an ageing workforce and we encourage young people to go into this area to ensure a better defence of the european union.
in writing. the eu needs to act urgently to strengthen both its internal security and external defence in the context of immigration, terrorism and the new us administration. european citizens need european action to be concretised through a substantial overhaul of the common security and defence policy to allow the eu to act where nato does not. i believe that the next eu summit in december, which will address the strengthening of eu cooperation in external security and defence, must take account of the future european space strategy. the eu must become a real space power, and technology plays a key role in this, as it determines access to space and competitiveness. we are still very much dependent on non-european base sources when it comes to the core space technologies. at the moment, we cannot say that europe is a 'space power'. for the time being, european access to key space technologies is assured if there is agreement from the us authorities. the future common security and defence policy must therefore be more effective and more visible, all the more so as space capabilities have become an essential part of the security and defence policies of the member states and therefore of their sovereignty.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission and, in particular, my colleague commissioner bulc, i would like to welcome this initiative. this report is indeed timely. we are convinced it will give further momentum to our maritime year 2017. the issues the report raises are very much the ones we want to work on. we want to ensure safe, secure and sustainable maritime transport that serves the internal market, connects europe globally and keeps the eu maritime cluster competitive. waterborne passenger transport is part of this story with the role it plays in people’s daily lives, for their leisure and for the employment it provides to many europeans. so we welcome the fact that the report looks into passenger transport and leisure activities. however, in some cases there are differences that should be recognised, for example, when it comes to financial assistance to transport operators linked to public service obligations, which is not generally available to cruise services. regarding environmental aspects, limits on the sulphur content of shipping emissions were included in eu legislation in 2012 with effect from 1 january 2015. the international maritime organisation recently confirmed the global sulphur cap, as of 2020, in line with eu legislation. in 2013 the commission set up the european sustainable shipping forum, bringing together stakeholders to facilitate the implementation of environmental legislation in the maritime sector. in this framework a green shipping guarantee programme was developed and launched by the commission in cooperation with the european investment bank this year. this programme is aimed at providing guarantees to accelerate investments in clean maritime technologies and to help the industry to go beyond the current eu environmental legislation. a first framework agreement with national financial institutions was recently signed, to be followed by others later this year. the total financial envelope of eur 750 million approved for the green shipping guarantee programme is provided by the connecting europe facility and the european fund for strategic investment. clean and sustainable shipping will be further promoted with the effective implementation of the directive on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, ensuring the necessary standardisation and setting up of the basic fuel supply infrastructure between 2025 with eu financial support. the european maritime safety agency will assist with the drafting of technical guidance to port authorities and administrations for liquefied natural gas bunkering. the ten-t guidelines and their main financing instrument, the connecting europe facility, supports the promotion of green shipping. in this context, over eur 185 million were allocated in 2014 and 2015 for studies, pilot actions and infrastructure projects to support new technologies and innovation in processes. with regard to transport provided by ferries, integration with other means of transport, including integrated ticketing, is indeed important and, through the its directive, technical and functional specifications are being developed. this will include timetables, as well as information, for passengers with reduced mobility. the commission notes parliament’s interest in extending passenger rights to multimodal journeys, in line with the principles enshrined in the current passenger rights regulations, among others the waterborne passengers’ rights regulation. the commission is currently looking into possible initiatives in this field. in may 2016 the commission submitted its report on the operation of the waterborne passengers’ rights regulation. stakeholders and national authorities expressed their satisfaction with the regulation, but also agreed that further coordinated action, such as information campaigns to inform citizens about their rights, and cooperation between authorities to ensure the uniform application of the regulation, is needed to improve the regulation’s effectiveness. the commission welcomes the interest of parliament in the question of the international governance of inland waterway transport. this issue is relevant both for passenger and freight transport and, in the context of the commission’s naiades ii programme, important steps of streamlining and regulatory convergence have already been taken through the creation, in the framework of the ccnr, of the european committee for drawing up standards in the field of inland navigation. the commission would also support the call to have more statistical data on passenger numbers, but it must be underlined that eurostat can only collect data on the basis of legislation. harmonised rules for accident statistics exist and a detailed report is published every year. unfortunately this is not the case for inland waterways. finally, the commission fully agrees that ports play an important role in the performance of waterborne passenger transport and has already, since 2013, proposed a comprehensive ports policy. this includes measures to improve the efficiency of ports. we therefore count on your vote in favour of the ports regulation, which the council and commission expect to go to the plenary without much delay. we also count on your support in promoting good use of the eu’s instruments for finance and investments, notably the connecting europe facility and efsi. the commission believes that ports cannot develop in isolation from their neighbourhoods and thus encourages initiatives that improve the relationship between ports and port cities. let me also use this opportunity to thank parliament for its support in relation to issues on securing our external sea borders and the decisions on european coastguard cooperation.
in writing. the success of european transport policies will depend to a large extent on how well the european union can redirect transport flows across all existing modes, as well as on the quality of the services provided. in the context of growing demand and a growing concern for reducing emissions, water transport can be the solution to sustainable and safe transport, giving a new impetus to economic development in riparian and coastal areas. in view of this, member states and the commission should pay greater attention to passenger transport by water, starting with the rehabilitation of the necessary infrastructure and ending with rigorous training of staff in this sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the european executive should therefore work more closely with the member states to attract european funds, especially those for smes and cohesion policies, in order to develop a transport strategy that is appropriate to the needs of each region, but also in relation to the priorities of the ten-t network.
the rapporteur. madam president, i am very pleased that our parliament will vote tomorrow on the text which i initiated and drafted in the committee on development. we will thus have the opportunity to present our position before the high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation, to be held in nairobi next week. this meeting is of crucial importance for the topic of development effectiveness as it is the first such meeting after the adoption of the 2030 agenda. we believe it is essential that the european union takes a strong stand in nairobi, emphasizing with determination the need to build on the development effectiveness acquis and to strengthen existing cooperation cases. the four principles of development effectiveness, namely ownership of development strategies, results orientation, inclusive partnership, transparency and mutual accountability, are indeed, as acknowledged in the draft nairobi outcome document, the driving forces for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs). action now is needed to make our development cooperation as effective as possible in achieving these ambitious goals and making the best use of public and private resources for development. official development assistance, while particularly suitable in certain contexts, cannot do everything, especially in the current economic context. it should complement countries' efforts to mobilise national resources and help catalyse private investment and additional public resources. nevertheless, we must insist on meeting the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gdp to development - and we are still far from it - and on making further efforts in terms of the quality of the aid provided. on issues such as aid unbundling or alignment with national priorities, progress must be accelerated. since we are talking about the mobilisation of resources for development, i must particularly emphasise the role of the private sector. i believe that it is an important partner in achieving the sdgs and, like other development actors, it must commit to align itself with the principle of development effectiveness. beyond the private sector, the nairobi meeting should also be an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of inclusiveness and partnerships with all actors to achieve the sdgs. we need synergies between the various development actors to achieve this and realise the full potential of these partnerships. the global partnership for effective development cooperation has an important role to play in this regard. it is essential to strengthen it, including in terms of monitoring, in order to position it well in the overall architecture for the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the european union, which has been a pioneer in the effectiveness of development aid, must continue to play a leading role on these issues as well as on the involvement of civil society, national parliaments and other stakeholders, south-south cooperation, gender equality and women's empowerment. responsibility for development outcomes is shared, and with agenda 2030 we have an additional requirement that stems from the overall philosophy of leaving no one behind. finally, there is a whole series of ideas which we have developed in this report, but which i think are missing from the draft final document from nairobi. i think we should stress this point. the effectiveness of development cannot be guaranteed without peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law. we therefore call for increased support for improving transparency, good governance and the rule of law in developing countries. they are as essential to achieving the sdgs as the other more technical requirements of the global agenda for development effectiveness.
madam president, the european union is the world's largest donor, with almost 55% of the funds allocated worldwide. however, we are facing a number of difficulties: whether we are talking about the medium- and long-term impact of development assistance funds, whether we are talking about the insufficiency of joint projects between member states, or whether we are talking about the financing, sometimes, of the same projects by several member states or from several budget lines. all these problems, however, can be solved with a series of practical solutions. to increase the efficiency of development assistance funds, we need to regulate the allocation of assistance at european level. we need to develop comprehensive programmes to monitor and support beneficiaries both during and after the projects. we need to increase transparency in the allocation and spending of funds, but we also need to establish a public reporting system for european funding and projects. because ultimately, what we have to do is to find a way in which we can coordinate all the projects developed by the european union and the member states. the problem of efficiency can be solved if we want it and fight for it.
madam president, at present, more than half of the world's development aid is provided by the eu and its member states. however, the success of development policies depends on the effectiveness of international development cooperation and cooperation on sustainable development. we must see that international mechanisms, while showing a strong commitment and in many cases being the only help in a given situation, can only show very limited results. the slow decline in global inequality cannot offset the environmental changes, the water shortage problem, and the partly resulting migration, some of the consequences of the population explosion. the developed world can only demonstrate its commitment to the goals by pursuing a more determined and ambitious development policy and by correcting international trade mechanisms.
madam president, respect for human rights is regulated both at european level and at the level of each member state. however, there are serious violations of citizens' rights in many member states. and unfortunately, this seriously and sometimes irreparably affects people's lives and dignity. the case of mariana rarinca, a citizen of my country, is well known and therefore i consider this example to be eloquent for my argument. ms rarinca, the complainant in relation to the president of the csm in romania, was charged. she was arrested 191 days before her trial. this lady's ordeal lasted for years, and finally, after she was acquitted, she was sentenced again. the rarinca case is a typical case where the ordinary citizen fights with the institutions for justice and fails to win. it is serious in this case that both the csm and the presidential institution failed to comply with the legal provision on the period of fifteen days allowed to a citizen to lodge a complaint. i believe that we must, from here, at european level, supervise the institutions of a state governed by the rule of law so that they act separately, non-discriminatorily, with respect for human rights. and i also believe that the lack of accountability of the judiciary in some countries' legislation leads to abuse and suffering, but also to the spending of huge sums from the budget for compensation to citizens who, in the end, find justice in the european institutions.
madam president, there are many voices in european public opinion who believe that romania's fight against corruption is an example for many other countries. i personally think that a big change has taken place in romania and the cleansing of the public can be a huge positive for this process. but we cannot ignore the excesses of the system. a hungarian catholic school operating in a building returned to the catholic church under romanian restitution laws is currently being investigated by the corruption prosecutor's office because of suspicions of irregularities in the licensing process. if this has happened, it must be corrected, but it is unacceptable to accuse of corruption officials who only implemented the laws and question the good faith of the school principal, and create uncertainty among parents and children. the legality of schools operating on reclaimed church property is increasingly being questioned in romania, with fears that the authorities are driven by the intention to reverse the entire restitution process.
madam president, one of the objectives of the european union is to stimulate research at european level. but unfortunately, the way it implements its programmes creates new pay discrimination between researchers in eastern and western europe. despite the fact that funds are won through competitions at european level, there are huge differences between the pay grids applied under the main research and innovation programme horizon 2020. i therefore ask the european commission: how is it possible that an expert of type a in a european project can earn about 70 euros (300 lei), while the income of the romanian researcher in the same project is ten times lower, being reduced to only about seven euros? i therefore support the initiative of the babeș bolyai university in cluj-napoca and the polytechnic university of bucharest and strongly urge the european commission to restore a uniform salary for all european researchers. equal work, equal pay. as a member of the european parliament and a romanian academic, i cannot accept such discrimination and i will fight to restore justice.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, you said, among other things, that you wanted to integrate european companies into the global market and i agree with you as a former entrepreneur. but i ask you: do you think that with this rigid policy of a 3% deficit ceiling new investment can develop? don't you think it needs to be flexibly? how was this 3% deficit calculated? how do we know that's the optimal number? why not four, why not two?
mr president, commissioner, i will begin my speech with two key words: social responsibility. if europe's policy is not subordinated to this need, we will have no chance of remaining a united europe, we will not be able to compete in the global market. mr stiglitz explains scientifically that the 3% deficit threshold and the 60% public debt are taken out of thin air. there is no calculation to prove that 3% is the optimal threshold. i've worked in industry, and i know what deficit is, i know what investment is. when you make investments you need to increase the deficit. but it's important to make smart, operational investments that will cover your deficit in the next step. that's the key to solving it, securing jobs, quality of life. we need to boost smes, rural development and agriculture. commissioner, there is also a need for financial responsibility. tax evasion and all evasion from payments to the budget shall be monitored. but we need institutions to support the euro, because otherwise we cannot coordinate 19 countries with the same currency.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, first of all i want to stress that we have a good report here and i agree with what our rapporteur said. but you, amongst others, said we should limit taxation. i agree with the fight against tax evasion, but i do not understand how you want to limit taxation while, in the context of subsidiarity, the tax problem belongs to the member states? maybe you can explain.
blue-card question. – you mentioned the non-obligation to exchange this kind of information and i truly agree with you. but you know the tax administration’s access to anti-money laundering information differs considerably throughout the european union. do you not think it might be time for the european commission to standardise this exchange of information?
i welcome again the european commission's proposal and this report for more transparency by promoting the automatic exchange of information between member states' tax authorities on money laundering. recently, the president of the united states, mr. obama, in his last tour of europe, said that there is a global elite that does not feel that it has to declare its income, pay taxes, like ordinary citizens. i therefore believe that the european commission has an obligation to act for the same level of transparency globally and, first of all, to make an ally in this fight of the new american administration.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol provides for an exchange of information in various areas of expertise, as well as various reports on certain crime prevention methods, criminal investigation procedures, and support in certain criminal investigations. ukraine is an important partner of the european union in the eastern partnership and strengthening the relations between europol and ukraine is essential to achieve the objectives of security and the fight against crime. the involvement of ukraine has proven necessary in the fight against organised crime, in particular trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants. i voted in favour of this proposal because i am convinced that this exchange of information between ukraine and europol will support the fight against organised crime and terrorism and that ukraine will become a key partner in this fight against international crime.
in writing. ‒ under decisions 2009/371/jha and 2009/934/jha, europol is required to conclude agreements with third states and organisations listed in decision 2009/935/jha. the purpose of these agreements is to support the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their cooperation in preventing organised crime, terrorism or other serious forms of crime. in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention of and fight against serious crime, but especially given ukraine's status as a potential candidate state and close neighbour of the union, an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol is essential. i support the report by mrs gabriel because, in relation to our ukrainian partner, we need an operational and strategic cooperation agreement providing for the exchange of information to help prevent crime and the activities that lead to it.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. europol’s joint supervisory body, which consist of the national data protection authorities specialised in law enforcement, gave a positive opinion to the conclusions of this cooperation agreement, taking into account the data protection level in ukraine. there is clear operational needs for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with ukraine. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime constitute underlying imperatives in order to fully achieve the objectives of this partnership. thus, i strongly support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine, since it would aid and reinforce the fight against organised crime, which is international by definition, and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of europol was agreed through the maastricht treaty in 1992. europol has its headquarters in the hague, the netherlands, and assists the 28 member states of the european union in their fight against international crime and terrorism. i have voted for this report that will provide approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are imperative to achieving the objectives of this partnership. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively. beyond the exchange of information, the agreement also provides other opportunities such as training and crime prevention activities. the conclusion of this cooperation agreement is a very concrete and strong step taken by ukraine to become a key partner in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given that ukraine is and chooses to behave as a key partner of the european union in the framework of the cooperation established through the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are two of the most important actions for the continuation of this partnership. the report adopted today therefore endorses the strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, which enhances the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information, with the aim of preventing and combating crime, trafficking in human beings and other high-profile crimes such as terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years set itself the objective of combating and eradicating negative phenomena such as terrorism, cross-border organised crime, trafficking in arms, people and drugs, and other illegal activities. the task of achieving this objective lies with europol, the specialised union agency whose role has increased significantly in recent times. in order to carry out its activities as efficiently as possible, europol has concluded a number of operational and strategic cooperation agreements with certain states with which the union has privileged relations, agreements to facilitate cooperation between the specialised agencies of both parties, including the exchange of personal data, in pursuit of the common objective. ukraine is a key eu partner in the eastern partnership, has signed an association and stabilisation partnership with the union and has made significant progress in the adoption of european legislation in all areas. the signing of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine is a step forward towards strengthening cooperation between the two parties, which will also have a positive influence on facilitating the mobility of european and ukrainian citizens. i consider this to be a welcome agreement, the adoption of which will contribute to strengthening the strategic relationship between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the agreement between europol and ukraine. the council proposal concerns the approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with ukraine. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are underlying imperatives for achieving the objectives of this partnership.
in writing. ‒ the alleged actions do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast by the member of the european parliament in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i therefore supported the decision to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ the charges are manifestly unrelated to the position of jean-françois jalkh as a member of the european parliament and concern instead activities of a purely national or regional nature, given that the statements related to the local elections in france held on 23 and 30 march 2014 and to his position as the front national’s publications director with editorial control over the federation’s websites. i therefore supported the decision to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report according to the evaluation made by the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ the act is adopted in accordance with the council position. i support the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks and implementing new principles of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation regarding a regulation that establishes a long--term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concludes the process of adopting the long-term plan for code reserves. negotiations between the council and the european parliament on the respective roles of the two institutions in determining the long-term plan for the code reserves have been ongoing for several years and were only concluded following the decision of the european court of justice. i think it is extremely important that the european parliament is involved in the establishment of these long-term plans, because we have to make sure that the common fisheries policy is respected and the objectives are achieved by adopting these plans. in this context, i consider that the inclusion in this document of the principles of maximum sustainable yield and the landing obligation are fundamental for sustainable exploitation and for achieving the objectives of the cfp.
in writing. ‒ efforts to restore cod stocks in eu waters cannot be effective unless there is cooperation from all stakeholders and they take their responsibilities to reduce fishing mortality and the negative impact on the community in those fishing areas. in this regard, member states should give priority to the development and promotion of measures and (financial) incentives to avoid unwanted catches and the use of selective fishing gear, with the financial support of the european maritime and fisheries fund. member states should also make efforts to identify (through the stecf process) gear characteristics that result in the reduction or elimination of cod by-catches and to transfer the knowledge gained to other member states so that cod stocks can be restored. it is clear that in justifying a long-term plan for the recovery of cod stocks, account must be taken of the fact that fully documented fishing activities have produced results and that variants of these can be developed with beneficial effects on cod stocks and related fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the european union's common fisheries policy (cfp) was designed to give people involved in the sector the opportunity to make the most of their fishing activities. in this regard, in september 2012 the commission proposed a regulation to maintain the cod stocks necessary for the reproduction of the species and the sustainability of the fishery, a proposal supported by parliament. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the court's decision upheld the commission's and parliament's position, confirming the institutional framework enshrined in the lisbon treaty and the role of the european parliament in the development of european fisheries policy. in this context, the new revised regulation will enter into force on 1 january 2017 and will provide more certainty and clarity in this important area. i therefore call for the report to be adopted without delay.
in writing. ‒ this initiative aims to extend the access of tax authorities to information on anti-money laundering in order to achieve the objectives of monitoring the application of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions. the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance has always been a priority for the european union, with increasing tax transparency a key objective in the fight against money laundering. given that the access of tax administrations to information differs significantly in some regions of the union, this proposal is appropriate in order to strengthen efforts against tax evasion. i voted in favour of the report on access to information by tax authorities on the fight against money laundering, as i consider that it is essential to strengthen cooperation between tax authorities in the member states in order to combat fraudulent actions that harm the union budget.
in writing. ‒ disclosures in cases such as swissleaks, luxleaks and the panama papers have confirmed the fundamental need to increase tax transparency and to intensify coordination and cooperation between the institutions. given the global nature of the anti-money laundering activity, such cooperation is essential for an effective fight against such practices. the european union rules on the prevention and combating of money laundering have incorporated amendments to international standards with the aim of strengthening coordination between member states in response to global challenges, in particular because of the links between money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime and tax evasion. i voted for a more efficient automatic and mandatory exchange of tax information in support of achieving international tax transparency. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a top priority for the union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of the report, as automatic and mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities is a new step forward in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering in the eu. hence, i strongly support the exchange of aml information between tax authorities to be mandatory and automatic. tax administrations’ access to aml information differs considerably throughout the eu. even when this access is granted, authorities often still encounter significant barriers that hinder the effectiveness of their work against tax avoidance and evasion. the amendments to the fourth anti-money-laundering directive, proposed by the commission in july 2016, are important to improve the identification of money-laundering, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. tax authorities should also have access to such information in order to maximise their capacity to tackle tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. ‒ the rapid exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities at a national and international level should be mandatory in order to aid the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering in the european union.
in writing. ‒ on 15 february 2011 the european council issued directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. i have voted for this report that amends this directive offering tax authorities anti-money laundering information.
in writing. ‒ the directive on access to anti-money laundering information by tax authorities applies to all types of taxes and duties levied by or on behalf of a member state or its territorial or administrative subdivisions, including local authorities, as well as to virtual currency exchange services and custodian digital wallet providers. in order to achieve the objectives of this directive, the commission should assess the role that the banking system and financial operators can play in promoting money laundering. the union could therefore, by virtue of its increased powers in financial and banking regulation, take action through an ad hoc proposal on increased scrutiny and transparency for banking and financial transactions and through possible sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary that one of the priorities of the european union continues to be the fight against tax fraud and evasion, which generates the phenomenon of money laundering, so harmful to the budgets of the member states. as we have in mind a problem that affects not only romania, but all european states, i voted for ensuring a transparent environment, for the access of tax authorities to the financial information of persons and companies suspected of such acts, with the mention that these suspicions must be founded, to prevent abuses. an important aspect of the report is the proposal to improve international cooperation between tax authorities by exchanging key information to combat these activities, which often have a cross-border aspect.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this initiative is to allow tax authorities to have constant access to information on anti-money laundering. this would allow them to effectively monitor the proper application of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions. the access of tax administrations to information in this area varies considerably across the european union. the amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive proposed by the european commission in july 2016 are important to make the detection of fraud, corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities more efficient. tax authorities should have access to such information in order to maximise their ability to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the automatic and mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities is also a new step forward in the fight against fraud, tax evasion and money laundering in the eu. i therefore consider that this report is justified.
in writing. ‒ the euro area continues to be affected by very low inflation, some significant macroeconomic imbalances, but also high unemployment, despite all recent efforts. the european central bank's annual report for 2015 also indicates that the level of productivity is very low, suggesting a lack of investment, but also a failure to implement structural reforms. i welcome the measures taken by the european central bank to reduce the inflation rate to 2% over the medium term and also support the longer-term targeted refinancing operations programmes geared towards the real economy, which have helped to improve the financial situation. i voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2015 because i believe that the ecb has consistently been committed to ensuring the financial stability of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the global economy continued to recover gradually in 2015, although global economic growth was slightly more moderate than in the previous year. 2015 was a year of recovery for the euro area economy. however, inflation remained on a downward trajectory. although the risks of extreme events were eventually avoided, i believe that in the future we need more clarity and legal certainty in the process of liquidity provision by the central bank to euro area institutions. i support the motion for a resolution of the ep on the european central bank annual report 2015. we are facing uncertainties about the outlook for the world economy. we continue to face disinflationary forces. and we are faced with questions about the direction europe is heading and its resilience to new shocks. in this context, a commitment to respect the rights of citizens is needed to enhance their confidence. structural reforms that directly facilitate investment and jobs must be promoted.
in writing. ‒ i generally support the expansionary monetary policies implemented by the ecb until now but i am of the opinion that the ecb alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless it is complemented by investments and ambitious and socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level. i am also of the opinion that the ecb can do more to make sure that liquidity reaches the real economy and the smes in particular and to be vigilant that the low interest rates banks are benefiting from are translated into more loans to the real economy. moreover, i support the report as it calls for a step-by-step completion and full implementation of the banking union, the building of a capital market union as well as a solution to the issue of non-performing loans to enhance the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and mitigating the risks arising from a shock in the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless its measures are accompanied by investments and structural reform programmes at member state level. the ecb should do more to ensure that liquidity reaches the real economy and the smes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 1 june 1998 the european central bank was established with the main task of maintaining price stability in the euro area and thus preserving the purchasing power of the single currency. it is the central bank of the 19 member states of the eu who have adopted the euro. i have voted for this 2015 annual report regarding the european central bank which states that the euro area is facing a very low level of productivity growth and will continue to do so due to the high level of unemployment, excessive low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ the single monetary policy must be complemented by sound fiscal policies and ambitious, socially balanced structural reform programmes at member state level. monetary policy alone is not the appropriate instrument to solve the structural problems of the european economy, and the expected economic recovery is not a substitute for essential structural reforms. we stress that a functioning, diversified and integrated capital market would support the single monetary policy transmission channels. we call, in this context, for the gradual completion of the banking union and full compliance by member states with the relevant legislation, as well as the building of a capital markets union, as this would be a decisive step to improve the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and to mitigate the risks arising from a financial sector shock.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which summarises very well the problems faced by the ecb in the previous year, but also the reforms needed to boost growth. in this respect, i welcome the contribution of the european central bank and the role it has played in ensuring the financial stability of the euro area, defending the single currency and boosting employment. last but not least, i voted for this report because it draws the attention of the european commission to the need to improve its practices in order to supervise the shadow banking (non-bank lending) sector, as it is a growing phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the annual report that parliament prepares on the document presented by the european central bank covers the ecb's activities in the field of monetary policy - such as interest rates and monetary operations. however, it does not cover specific aspects related to the ecb's supervisory function in the context of the banking union. i believe that the ecb alone, without support, cannot stimulate the applications submitted, unless they are complemented by ambitious investments and programmes, carried out at member state level. in that context, i am voting in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ecb annual report for 2015. the resolution stresses the ecb's federal character, which has enabled it to take firm measures against the crisis, and recognises that the extraordinary measures taken by the ecb to bring the inflation rate back to 2% over the medium term are in line with the terms of its mandate. the resolution underlines that there are still discrepancies between the funding rates granted to smes and those granted to larger companies. the ep points out that the constant need for balance sheet adjustments affects, among other things, the availability of credit for smes in some member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'.
in writing. ‒ the retail financial services market at member state level is fragmented and still underdeveloped. therefore, immediate action is needed to foster innovation and enable the improvement of these financial services. as regards the number of cross-border transactions, this is low, which is why it is necessary to establish a comprehensive legislative framework, which imposes the necessary consumer protection. this could also lead to greater opportunities for enhanced competition at national level. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that building a single market in retail financial services is essential to provide consumers with better financial products and services, a wider range of options and improved access to financial services.
in writing. ‒ retail financial services are an essential part of the daily lives of eu citizens. these include personal bank accounts, payments, personal loans, mortgages, savings, pensions, investments and certain insurance products. they facilitate citizens' participation in the economy, allowing them to plan for the long term and protecting them in unforeseen circumstances. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the green paper on retail financial services. in recent years, much has been done to create a single market for financial services in the eu, but the integration of retail financial services does not seem to have reached its full potential yet. for example, one of the benefits of the single market should be increased competition. however, in some markets competition is not effective, in particular in the payments and banking sectors. in other words, consumers cannot benefit from cheaper or higher quality services in other eu member states. without sustained efforts, european financial markets risk remaining fragmented. an improved market in retail financial services would also create new market opportunities for suppliers, supporting growth in the european economy and creating jobs.
in writing. ‒ legislation needs to work well in a market that is constantly changing; therefore, we need to think about these solutions actively. for most retail financial products, we are still dealing with 28 different and less competitive national markets, with limited cross-border activity. this is to the detriment of consumers, businesses and the overall functioning of the european economy. there's a huge potential that's still being exploited. in order to make progress on the retail financial services agenda, some major challenges need to be addressed. i voted for building a stronger capacity to collect and analyse data at eu level in a more efficient way, but also for creating and maintaining a level playing field. building a functioning single market in retail financial services is an important project. it is also a project that is worth all the effort and will create real added value.
in writing. ‒ the process of development and growth of innovative smes and start-ups requires the transposition and implementation of this legislation, avoiding duplication and overlap, and creating and maintaining a level playing field for all stakeholders, including incumbents and new entrants, with rules that are as neutral as possible in terms of technology and business model. on the other hand, i believe that measures should be taken to ensure that the same service is regulated by the same rules in order to avoid distortions of competition, in particular with the emergence of new retail financial service providers.
in writing. ‒ further developments of the single market for retail financial services in a digitalised world would only work if we ensure a sufficient consumer protection level through better information and more transparency. thus, i support the call for the commission to propose a consistent action plan including concrete legislative proposals to create a eu market in which well protected consumers have equal opportunities and access to transparent and well-valued products. i consider important the need to ensure a right balance between consumer protection and the development of the single market for retail financial services. therefore, i believe that the scope of the future commission action plan should equally focus on consumer protection measures and the development of cross-border opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the developments of the single market for retail financial services in a world which undergoes constant digital innovation would truly work if we ensure a sufficient consumer protection level through better information and more transparency. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ further efforts are needed in order for retail financial services to be bought and sold across the european union’s borders without any barriers. i have voted for this report on this consultation document of policy proposals that will be open to debates and discussions and will try to build a stronger eu level capacity for data collection and analysis. this initiative is a dynamic approach to policy making which is necessary in this field.
in writing. ‒ this initiative, the green paper on retail financial services, comes at the right time, given the need to act proactively at all stages of the policy-making process, in order to respond effectively and appropriately to developments in such an innovative and rapidly changing market. we stress the importance of promoting positive developments in retail financial services markets by creating and maintaining a level playing field for all stakeholders, including incumbents and new entrants, with rules that are as neutral as possible in terms of technology and business model. such an approach is also necessary to support the growth of innovative smes and start-ups. we ask the commission to ensure that the same service is regulated by the same rules, in order to avoid distortion of competition, especially with the emergence of new retail financial service providers. this initiative will only succeed if it puts a strong emphasis on creating an eu market where consumers are well protected and have equal opportunities and access to cost-effective, simple and transparent products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the retail financial services market is not sufficiently developed in the european union and that it can be beneficial for consumers. in this respect, the report adopted today encourages the promotion of the retail financial services market by creating a level playing field between incumbents and new entrants, which is important for supporting and creating new smes. last but not least, i welcome this report as it invites the european commission, together with the member states, to promote national one-stop shops, which would provide assistance to retail financial services businesses wishing to take greater advantage of cross-border opportunities.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the discussion on the digitisation of all economic sectors, this initiative contributes to creating the framework for the proactive expression of those interested in creating a single market for retail financial services, a market characterised by transparency, which benefits everyone. clearly, the creation of a viable single financial market is an ambitious goal for the eu with real scope for achievement, in a context of genuine competition in the retail financial services market, adequate consumer information, easy access and adequate consumer protection in these markets - the necessary framework to facilitate innovation in retail financial services with a positive impact on end-users. moreover, for the eu to become a hub for innovative financial services, it is not enough to create new players and attractive financial products for consumers and businesses, but the challenges posed by the digital society in terms of security, data protection, consumer protection, barriers to the provision of financial goods and services at a distance, taxation, fair and constructive competition, financial stability, etc. must be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report which envisages a set of concrete proposals to ensure all consumers for retail financial services in the eu are well protected. we need to ensure consumers are well protected through further action to empower consumers to make informed decisions, to increase transparency of retail financial products, and to remove consumer barriers to switching and any unjustified costs relating thereto, or to withdrawal from a product. the commission should take further initiatives, including a proposal for an eu savings account and encouraging finance for sustainable and green investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services. i agree with the rapporteur that this procedure is the right direction, the green paper being presented at the right time. the rapporteur insists that a european market for retail financial services must be beneficial for smes from both a demand and supply perspective. from a supply perspective, this should be a means of improving access to finance for smes, and from a demand perspective, it should allow smes to access cross-border markets more easily.
in writing. ‒ europe is marked by severe social, economic and security crises. europe faces multiple terrorist threats, but also economic issues related to cybersecurity and energy insecurity. all these threats require additional measures to ensure security and promote the principles of democracy. strong policy instruments, backed by relevant financial resources and based on the principles of collective defence and coordination with nato, are needed to ensure long-term security. i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union because i believe that joint efforts are needed to be able to respond effectively to the challenges facing europe and to manage external crises, with a view to ensuring the common defence of the entire area of freedom and security.
in writing. ‒ the security environment surrounding the eu is volatile, complex and uncertain. in this context, security and defence should remain at the heart of the european agenda. europe must be stronger, faster and more reactive in real threat situations. he must take his share of the responsibility and act on his ambitions. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the european defence union. a new european security strategy has long been needed. we need a fresh approach, taking into account the radically changed security environment, to define the eu's political ambitions, but also to make the eu a stronger actor in the field of security. we need to make full use of the treaty provisions in the area of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and to operationalize the provisions laid down in the lisbon treaty. in order to put an end to isolated and uncoordinated islands of military cooperation, priority should be given to the launch of permanent structured cooperation (pesco).
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the security situation in and around europe has deteriorated significantly, generating difficult and unprecedented problems that no country or organisation can solve alone. the european union is facing a security crisis on its territory more than ever, with these threats becoming increasingly complex. i voted for a common union defence policy which must strengthen europe's capacity to promote security within and beyond its borders. the european defence union must be based on regular joint assessments of security threats by member states, but it must also be flexible enough to meet the security challenges faced by each member state and to respond to their individual security needs. the eu must remain a guarantor of respect for human rights, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the report backs the idea of progressing in the direction of a european defence union and for such a structure to represent an ‘umbrella’ for military capabilities at the disposal of the european union. it proposes the activation of permanent structured cooperation, it proposes setting up an eu operational headquarters, it encourages fostering the eu defence industries. i strongly support the developments in the field of csdp and encourage the steps towards a substantial autonomous defence capacity for the eu, aiming at protecting its citizens and promoting its values and interests, with full respect for the treaties, international law and human rights. therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as an alternative rapporteur in the imco committee for the opinion on the european defence union, i consider this report to be very important for the common security and defence policy provided for by the lisbon treaty, according to which the eu must promote peace and security globally. enhanced european cooperation in defence would lead to greater effectiveness, enhanced eu assets and capabilities, and possible positive effects on defence research and industrial aspects. the development of eu capabilities through joint procurement could provide a boost to europe's defence industry, including smes, which stimulate economic growth and job creation. it is important to foster a functional, accessible and transparent european defence market that supports smes and aims to empower member states to maximise their defence and security budgets.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the development and fostering of the eu’s autonomous defence capacity. the european defence union should be supported in order for the eu to have its own common military capability.
in writing. ‒ due to the latest developments, europe’s security environment is facing new challenges thus calling for the revival of european security cooperation and integration. i voted for this report that stresses the need for a broad set of relevant policy instruments as well as strong and modern military capabilities in order to ensure long-term security in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the european defence union because there is a need to promote wider and more systematic european cooperation in defence to ensure the availability of key capabilities. a common union defence policy should enhance europe's capacity to promote security within and beyond its borders, as well as strengthen the nato partnership and transatlantic relations, and will therefore make possible a stronger nato, thus further promoting more effective security and defence at the territorial, regional and global levels. we encourage the commission to work in collaboration with the european defence agency to strengthen the industrial and technological base of the defence sector, which is essential for european strategic autonomy. research carried out in collaboration with the european defence industry in all member states can help reduce fragmentation in the sector and increase its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it proposes a framework of realistic measures in terms of the actions to be taken to establish a european defence union. the document underlines the importance of the continuous development of the european cyber defence policy with a view to increasing the cyber defence capabilities of the member states, as well as operational cooperation and information exchange. as regards the legislative component, the report calls on the european parliament to set up an independent security and defence committee with the objective of monitoring and implementing permanent and structured cooperation in the field of european defence. at institutional level, i also share the rapporteur's vision of reform by asking the council of the european union to establish, as a first step, a permanent format for meetings bringing together the defence ministers of the member states in a decision-making and consultative forum.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the establishment of a european defence union in the current political context in which the eu finds itself is not an effective security solution. on the contrary, it involves huge logistical costs. at the same time, the objectives it proposes do not coincide with the reality facing the eu. the only political-military concept that can offer real guarantees in terms of security is the north atlantic treaty.
in writing. ‒ in the context of certain negative phenomena, such as terrorism and illegal immigration, which increasingly threaten the security of the european union and whose sources are to be found in conflicts close to the community's borders, there is a need to strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp). this is all the more so as the new administration in washington could change the support it currently gives to european defence, which would constitute a critical vulnerability for member states. in these circumstances, coordinated measures to strengthen security, including military security, would be required at union level. one of these measures could be the activation of permanent structured cooperation, including through the establishment of an independent security and defence committee within parliament. an eu operational centre could also be created and the european defence industry could be encouraged. this would allow existing eu missions to be better coordinated and the necessary measures to be taken more quickly and efficiently. however, all this must take account of the european treaties as well as the rules of international law and human rights. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ passenger shipping plays a key role in ensuring the sustainability of the european transport sector, and the potential of innovative technologies needs to be harnessed to make ships greener and more energy efficient. at present, there are a high number of people commuting to europe by road, leading to congestion and blockages on europe's main arteries. given that europe's geography benefits from a number of waterways, their use would be appropriate both to reduce congestion and co2 emissions and to ensure better and faster transport services. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that shipping is one of the most sustainable modes of transport and that it is necessary to exploit the potential of this type of transport in accordance with environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ transport is the foundation of any economy. market integration, economic growth and transport activity are closely linked activities. in the eu, effective transport links have facilitated the creation and integration of the internal market. however, efforts are still needed to exploit the potential of passenger shipping to achieve a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. i support the ep's motion for a resolution on the report on the exploitation of the potential of passenger shipping. waterways are the only mode of transport that offers a large available capacity. accidents are very rare, making this mode of transport an ideal environment for passenger shipping. to this end, we need a review of legislation at european level to improve the way existing rules are enforced. the current regulatory framework may also be further simplified to remove requirements that are obsolete or overlapping.
in writing. ‒ passenger shipping plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, in synergy with policies on safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness. due to the large number of people transiting europe daily, road traffic is faced with numerous bottlenecks and congestion. if the available capacity of passenger shipping were used more efficiently, we would not only reduce carbon dioxide emissions and traffic congestion, but also improve the transport system across the union. the geography of europe offers extraordinary opportunities for the development of shipping. i voted for the development of this enormous potential offered by passenger shipping. every year, some 400 million people pass through eu ports. eu legislation on passenger ship safety has led to an improvement in passenger safety.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's position on the need to integrate passenger shipping into urban, regional and cross-border public transport networks, which allows for more efficient mobility and better environmental protection, in conjunction with the increased decongestion of land transport networks and comfort in cities. on the other hand, it is beneficial for member states to promote and support local initiatives to activate inland waterway transport as a means of supplying crowded areas, including through the development of distribution centres in river ports and the development of passenger transport, in particular to make the areas concerned more attractive to tourists, as well as to move towards the increased use of greener, more energy efficient, lower emission vessels.
in writing. ‒ this ini report makes recommendations to improve ferry, barge and cruise services for passengers, including proper integration of waterborne passenger transport into existing public transport networks and improving integrated ticketing. the use of existing eu funding should be fully exploited to develop further the inland and coastal waterborne transport routes. waterborne passenger transport can be an environmentally and consumer friendly transport mode, as well as a vital service for tourists and commuters in remote/coastal areas. further measures can be taken to promote this mode of transport which can have a positive effect on economic development along coastal areas and relieve congestion on land. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given the importance of passenger shipping. this sector has great potential to use the available excess capacity in both infrastructure and ships and plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union, thus constituting an important factor in the development of cohesion. this report underlines the importance of encouraging the development of maritime highways, including by third countries, which promote efficient multimodal transport, facilitate its integration with other networks and modes of transport, remove bottlenecks in key network infrastructures and ensure territorial continuity. blockages at the level of links between the extended inland navigation system in western europe and the existing system in eastern europe should be removed. i believe it should be the responsibility of the european commission to fully support investments in quality infrastructure in the hinterland, which can help reduce local traffic congestion, and to ensure that local people are not affected.
in writing. ‒ this type of transport can be an environmentally and consumer friendly as well as a vital service for tourists and commuters in remote or coastal areas. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector is played by waterborne passenger transport, which includes ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises. i have voted for this report that will enhance efficiency, environmental performance, quality of life and will provide lifeline services to remote communities.
in writing. ‒ passenger transport in the context of coastal transport (short sea shipping), ferries running on inland and maritime waterways, urban and peripheral mobility, cruises and tourism, has a great potential to use the available excess capacity, both in terms of infrastructure and in terms of ships, and plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union. we invite member states to promote and support local initiatives to activate inland waterway transport as a means of supplying crowded areas, including through the development of distribution centres in river ports and the development of passenger transport, primarily to make the areas concerned more attractive to tourists. we welcome the efforts of the passenger shipping sector to transition to greener, more energy-efficient, lower-emission ships, developed as part of a european framework aimed at greening shipping. this would lead to cheaper, sustainable, more attractive and thus more economically competitive solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, firstly, it proposes to remove the existing bottlenecks between the large inland navigation system in western europe and the existing system in eastern europe, the links between which are currently in a high state of degradation. secondly, the report calls on the european commission to integrate the npt into its eu-wide mobility strategy and to take action to reduce co2 emissions in line with the cop 21 agreement. last but not least, i support this report because it reiterates the commitment of the ec and the member states to respect environmental standards to reduce air pollution, to monitor the quality of fuels and engines, with a view to using especially fuel-efficient ones.
in writing. ‒ harnessing the potential of passenger shipping contributes to the eu's objective of becoming the world leader in maritime research and innovation, set out in its maritime transport policy strategy by 2018. the development of maritime passenger transport, boosted by the exponential pace of technological developments, as an alternative to road transport, is an environmentally friendly mode of transport with beneficial effects on the environment and on the quality of life of citizens. in addition, exploiting the potential of the npt, based on adequate infrastructure, including through the development of projects co-financed by eu funds, generates the development not only of tourism but also of other sectors of the european economy. i agree that an analysis of all npt projects co-financed by eu funds and a synthesis of the implementation of eu npt strategies, coupled with an appropriate dissemination of all such statistical information, is necessary in order to take an integrated approach to exploiting the potential of maritime passenger transport, as this sector represents an important added value for the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the success of european transport policies will depend to a large extent on how well the european union can redirect transport flows across all existing modes, and on the quality of the services provided. in the context of growing demand and a growing concern for reducing emissions, water transport can be the solution to sustainable and safe transport, giving a new impetus to economic development in riparian and coastal areas. this report recommends that member states and the commission pay greater attention to passenger transport by water, starting with the rehabilitation of the necessary infrastructure and ending with rigorous training of staff in this sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. parliament also called on the european executive to step up cooperation with the member states to attract european funds, especially those for smes and cohesion policies, in order to develop a transport strategy that meets the needs of each region, but also in relation to the priorities of the ten-t network.
in writing. ‒ the eu has long been committed to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. december 2016 will mark the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the busan partnership for effective development cooperation, a political commitment also undertaken by the european union, which aims to improve the quality of the implementation, management and use of official development assistance in order to maximise its impact. in this regard, the commission and the member states should develop new initiatives to strengthen flagship south-south and tripartite cooperation projects involving new emerging donors and other middle-income countries, based on addressing global challenges of mutual interest, without losing sight of the perspective of poverty eradication. i support this report because it is absolutely necessary to fully exploit the potential of decentralised cooperation in order to promote the development effectiveness agenda, while respecting all guarantees with regard to transparency, effectiveness and coherence and avoiding further fragmentation of the international aid architecture.
in writing. ‒ the commitments made in busan to effective development cooperation have helped to define an international standard on aid effectiveness applicable to all development actors. the busan partnership agreement has been endorsed by 161 countries and territories and 54 international organizations. the european union plays an important role both in the development of current aid effectiveness standards and in the adoption of the 2030 agenda. joint programming is currently applied in more than half of the partner countries receiving eu development assistance. we voted to continue along this path, but also to step up efforts on aid effectiveness and development cooperation. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the participation of the union in the development of the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's view that the european parliament needs to be regularly and timely informed of the position adopted by the commission within the gpedc steering committee in order to fulfil its essential role of democratic control of european union policies. the progress made is also welcome and supports the need to ensure access to information for all partners on funding mechanisms and programming transparency, as well as possible projects and aid flows targeting development cooperation, in particular in the context of the international aid transparency initiative and the establishment of the eu aid explorer website. proper monitoring, analysis and exchange of information and experience on development progress in beneficiary countries are also needed.
in writing. ‒ i believe the eu should ensure a more effective development cooperation aid if it wants to have a real impact in alleviating poverty in a context of increasing humanitarian and development crises and scarcity of resources. the eu, as world’s biggest development aid donor, has a special responsibility to improve the effectiveness of and bring more accountability to eu assistance. the eu should lead global efforts in advancing the development effectiveness agenda. in the previous mandate, parliament took a stance on the issue of improving aid effectiveness by providing its input in view of the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness. five years later, it is important to take stock of the implementation of the global commitments achieved then. the report is thus a good occasion to analyse how aid and development effectiveness could contribute to implementing the sdgs and the addis ababa agenda on financing for development. our amendments achieved to defend a stronger global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc), more inclusive of civil society organisations and with a larger mandate, mainly by ensuring a better south-south and triangular cooperation and more transparency in access to information.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which aims to have a real impact on poverty reduction and ensure more effective development cooperation aid in the context of growing humanitarian crises. the eu is the leading development donor, responsible for improving the efficiency of cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in 2011 the busan partnership was agreed upon in south korea by a wide range of governments and organisations for effective development cooperation. i voted for this report that will advance development effectiveness by increasing aid transparency, improving joint programming and addressing the issues of conflict and fragility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which ambitiously proposes that all development actors coordinate in line with the commitments made in paris and busan to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda in terms of the optimal use of public and private resources for development. the report also highlights the key role of oda (official development assistance) in eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities, providing essential public services and supporting good governance. another factor that led me to support this report is that it calls into question the longstanding commitment of eu member states to allocate 0.7% of gni to aid and to strengthen their development assistance, including through the eu budget and the edf. this report recalls the important role that citizens, local communities, elected representatives, faith-based organisations, trade unions and academia play in the development of the society in which we live.
in writing. ‒ a common approach, in the sense of a global partnership, to making development cooperation more effective is necessary if we are to truly transform the world we live in, i.e. implement the 2030 agenda. it is time to hold accountable (obviously differentiated) even those who receive aid. the shift in focus from 'aid effectiveness' to 'development cooperation effectiveness' is salutary in this context, but only to the extent that it is grounded in concrete results in terms of contributing to the achievement of sustainable and inclusive development. the principle of 'leaving no one behind', which is the general philosophy and core commitment of the 2030 agenda, is at the heart of making cooperation for societal development more effective at global level. however, the process of applying this principle efficiently and effectively requires operationalization and monitoring indicators, exchange of good practices and substantial evaluations, dissemination of results and progress, so that the accountability and impact of development cooperation is increased, not only at member state level. it also requires properly reasoned national policies on development aid adequacy to increase the accountability of all development stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ as the world's main source of development aid, the european union also has a great responsibility for regulating this sector properly. the main problems in this respect are the effectiveness of aid and the transparency of funds provided by the union to developing countries. following the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness in 2011, it was agreed to establish an institutional mechanism to monitor this area in the form of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc). it is intended to be a platform for dialogue at international level and to ensure the fulfilment of commitments made by the participating states. the final objective is to achieve the sustainable development goals (sdgs) adopted by the un general assembly and to implement the addis ababa action agenda adopted in 2015. to achieve these objectives, the eu is supporting a number of innovative approaches to make each of the relevant actors achieve their goals, as well as new mechanisms such as triangular cooperation projects involving national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector. it is a laudable initiative and i therefore support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr cristian preda on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. the report calls on all development actors to build on commitments made and to renew and step up their efforts to make development cooperation as effective as possible in order to achieve the ambitious goals and targets set out in the 2030 agenda and to make the best use of public and private resources for development. it also calls for the use of all development policy instruments to eradicate poverty. as rapporteur for the eu regulation on conflict minerals, i am an advocate for more effective development cooperation, because only by stepping up efforts to eradicate poverty and the exploitation of people and communities in conflict zones can we truly exercise the eu's mandate to promote democracy and human rights across the globe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you all for keeping a constant focus on syria in your plenary debates. i am really sorry i could not be with you in person last month, but i believe this is the fourth or fifth time this year that we have had a plenary debate on our work on syria. last month i was in brussels for the afghanistan conference, another important file in which the european union has a very important part to play, but the slovak presidency briefed me on your october exchanges, and they also provided a very important input for the discussions we had at the foreign affairs council both in october and last week. we have discussed syria again, as i mentioned, in the foreign affairs council both in october and last week, on monday to be precise, and i have engaged in a number of meetings with both syrian, regional and international actors, so for me this debate is a very precious opportunity to update you with the most recent initiatives and contacts and work we are carrying on, starting from the work on the humanitarian side that, together with christos stylianides, we have carried out relentlessly, i would say, in these last months. over the last few days, there has been a new escalation of violence against the eastern neighbourhoods of aleppo. the resumption of airstrikes has worsened the humanitarian situation even further, particularly because it has left hundreds of thousands of besieged civilians without access to functioning hospitals. together with christos and his team, whom i would like to praise, and together with the united nations, we are working literally day and night to create the conditions to let the humanitarian aid in, and to let the wounded out, of east aleppo, as as well as to other besieged areas all across the syrian territory. to reach this goal, we are engaging both internationally with all relevant actors, and on the ground. we are in constant contact with the city council of eastern aleppo, as well as with civilian administrations in several parts of syria. we are helping them provide services to the local population in the areas where this is possible. our activity on the ground is increasingly recognised, first of all by the local players, by the syrians themselves, and this is for me – and i can speak also on behalf of christos and all the people who are working with us on this – the number one priority, that our work reaches the syrians on the ground. believe me when i tell you of our frustration at not managing to do more, but all the humanitarian work that is done is basically thanks also, i cannot say all, but almost all, to the funding, the work, the support, the logistics, the commitment of the european union. here again, i would like to thank our team, both on the ground and in brussels, which has been working really at an incredible rhythm on this, in full coordination always, with the united nations. our work, as i said, is increasingly recognised inside syria but also internationally. the contacts and the channels we have developed in this field will be crucial also to any settlement and to the transition. as you all know, the delivery of humanitarian aid is proving to be a very difficult exercise, given the lack of a broader political agreement on the cessation of hostilities, and we have realised very clearly in these last couple of months that the military-to-military work on the cessation of hostilities is more and more difficult in the absence of a wider political understanding on the future of syria. so what we risk is a vicious circle. this is why, after having discussed this with the foreign ministers and with the heads of state and governments in the foreign affairs council and in the european council, i have started to reach out to the key regional actors on the future of syria. this means that in the last weeks i met and had talks with the foreign ministers or leaders, presidents, of different countries of the region on a clear agenda. in the name of transparency, and also in sharing with you this work, let me go into a rather detailed list again. i know this is not the politics we need to talk – we would also need to talk politics, but i think it is also important for you to know exactly what this regional outreach is meaning by now. meetings with foreign minister al thani of qatar in brussels. then i headed to tehran where i met president rouhani and foreign minister zarif, and two days later to saudi arabia to see king salman. last week i discussed this in brussels with foreign minister bassil of lebanon. over the weekend i met with emirates foreign minister sheikh abdullah and foreign minister of jordan nasser judeh. contacts with others, notably turkish foreign minister çavuşoğlu and egyptian foreign minister shoukry will also follow. and on friday, just a few days ago, we hosted a meeting with the syrian opposition groups, the leaders of different groups that i met at length in brussels to share this process with them, to listen to their views to ensure full ownership and an active participation on their side. and obviously all of this is done in constant contact with staffan de mistura and his team, both in geneva and in the united nations headquarters in new york. so now to content. the focus of this outreach is on the future of syria, looking in particular at the post-conflict end state. what i am trying to do is identify areas of common ground and possible elements of a positive agenda with all the key actors. the issues that we are discussing in the framework of this outreach include political accountability, decentralisation or devolution, participation and protection of all components of the very diverse syrian society. i know that this chamber is particularly attentive to the situation of christians in the region; this is also part of our outreach. reconciliation, especially the local exercises of reconciliation, and economic reconstruction. on the latter let me be extremely clear: the european union is and will be ready to engage in the economic reconstruction of the country, together with other partners. but, let me stress as i stress it to our partners in the region, this will only happen once a political transition has begun under the framework of un security council resolution 2254. this work aims at improving the chances for the success of the un mandate and the un special envoy for the intra-syrian talks. our regional outreach can help create some space and some confidence for the talks to start because of course it is, as i said, for the syrians to decide the future of the country in direct talks under un auspices, but in the meantime, if as the european union we can provide some space regionally to accompany this process, it could only be useful. in six years of war we should have learned something about the conflict in syria. at times, an agreement between global powers could not hold, even if it was found, because the situation was out of control on the ground. in other cases, local ceasefires did not hold even if they were reached, because there was no agreement on a broader political level, either in the region or internationally. as i said, sometimes it is a vicious circle. things locally do not hold because the international regional framework is not accompanying; at some other times you find an agreement on regional and international level and you do not have the local actors on your side. so peace in syria will require at the same time an agreement among world powers, the un framework, among regional actors, the work we are trying to do, and all local players. i understand that it might sound strange to talk and to work on post-conflict at exactly the moment when war still rages on, and yet, talking about reconstruction, reconciliation, post-conflict, the system of governance, that could ensure syria future a way, is a way of maybe opening the door for a process of peace. because only if we start putting all the pieces together and to create some kind of consensus among the regional actors and among the citizens will we contribute to building peace in syria. now as you know very well, and as i repeated many times, the european union is not militarily involved in this war. this is the result of a political decision, one that was taken years ago, that i fully share and that unites us all in europe. we are not a party to the conflict. but this is not a constraint on our diplomatic action. on the contrary, this puts us in a privileged position as we work for peace. from our position, we understand better than others that there is no military solution to the war. we see that every escalation leads us further away, and not closer, to peace. we are in a privileged position as we can talk to everybody, we do talk to everybody, we are trusted by everybody, and i am convinced that the european union will be, and is becoming, an indispensable force to make peace in syria possible and to achieve it concretely on the ground. i can only ask you, this parliament, to keep supporting, as you have done constantly this year, our work on humanitarian grounds for creating the political space for peace in syria and for all the people of syria, to benefit from a brighter future in their country.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, in our last debate on syria, i described the humanitarian situation as dramatic and now i feel i have no words to describe the horror of this ongoing war. as you know very well, the population is trapped between the russian and regime bombs. according to un figures, 1 million people are under siege in syria. the humanitarian aspect must remain the union's priority and in this regard i would like to commend the work of you, madam high representative, and that of mr stylianides in facilitating the delivery of aid to syria. the european union is not a party to the gatt negotiations, but it is a party to the gatt negotiations. this paralysis has a culprit and that culprit is russia, because russia is there, it is dropping bombs and, at the same time, blocking any meaningful decision at the level of the un security council. russia will pay for this position and will not be able to avoid the price of this situation any time soon. before concluding, i would like to say that the position we have adopted, namely support for humanitarian aid and non-military involvement, must be maintained in the coming period.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to say to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy that, in six years of war, the world has been repeatedly appalled by the atrocities against civilians carried out in syria by isis, daesh and other terrorist groups. at the same time, the heavy, indiscriminate aerial bombardment of eastern aleppo by russia and the assad regime has killed hundreds, and continues even as i speak today. the s&d group condemns in the strongest terms the widespread violation of human rights and international humanitarian law and the deliberate continuous targeting of civilians, humanitarian workers and medical facilities by the parties involved in aleppo. we call on the armed parties to the conflict, both state and non—state, to allow an immediate cessation of hostilities so as to pave the way for the resumption of negotiations, thereby ensuring that humanitarian assistance reaches all people in need throughout syria, and immediately to allow medical evacuation and the delivery of emergency goods. we are deeply concerned about russia heavily reinforcing its military navy in the eastern mediterranean and about the renewal of large—scale airstrikes on aleppo, which can only bring further death and suffering to the syrian people. watching this disaster, it is our impression that even dictionaries no longer have words to describe the atrocities and the slaughterhouse of aleppo. we urge you, ms mogherini, the member states and the international community, to use all diplomatic tools and pressure necessary to urge those involved, including the russian-backed syrian regime, to stop attacks on aleppo and to ensure that all those responsible for war crimes and crimes against international humanitarian law are prosecuted under appropriate, impartial criminal justice.
madam president, madam high representative, it is clear that syria's de facto sovereignty has been seriously violated. it's a divided territory, with different factions in different areas exercising authority. foreign military interventions have made this situation worse. once again, it is clear that after so many years of civil war in which violence and cruelty have led to huge loss of human life, a national reconciliation will take at least 20 years. prolonging the war will lead to prolonging this period and/or to the fragmentation of the current syrian state into multiple political entities. analysis shows that recently the actors involved are stepping up their military operations in order to get the best possible seat at the negotiating table. this intensification of operations is however being paid for with loss of life by the syrian people. the european union could have played a much more important role in settling the conflict and blocking terrorist organisations. unfortunately, he didn't do enough, and the engagement was rigid. or european security depends significantly on stopping the war and post-conflict arrangements in syria. i call on the european council, the commission and the high representative to consider, in addition to humanitarian interventions, a more active and flexible policy to achieve these objectives.
in writing. – as the syrian warplanes renewed their bombing on aleppo on 15 november and the russians started new offensives against rebels resolute to resist in their strongholds, one thing is sure in this prolonged chaos: the fighting will lead to even more death and destruction in a region already utterly devastated by war. the russian and syrian air strikes have already killed hundreds of civilians, and destroyed neighbourhoods, hospitals and schools. witnessing all this, i do not doubt that ms mogherini agrees with me that the eu needs to upscale its diplomatic role in the middle east, especially considering that besides russia wreaking havoc in the region, the uncertainties brought by the result of the us elections are now also on the cards. it is extremely important that we do all that we can so that hostilities stop, humanitarian aid is delivered and post-conflict discussion starts as fast as possible.
blue-card question. – thank you very much madam president. dear colleague, you mention the immediate suspension of the process of accession of turkey, and i agree with lots of things that you said. but at the same time don’t you think this is going to have a counter-productive effect on europe, with no positive results on developments taking place nowadays in turkey? at the same time we would be abandoning democratic forces in turkey for whom the eu still plays an important anchoring role. last but not least, are we are losing any leverage on turkey by proceeding in this way?
madam president, we have discussed turkey several times in recent months, but i believe that today's debate will mark the relations between the union and turkey because this time we are asking for something very strong. the words we have used, "freeze of negotiations", "negotiation report", "moratorium" - we will find the consensus formula - are very strong. we are asking that the negotiations not be continued. we must be very nuanced in this approach, and our political group insists that this freeze, this postponement, be temporary. we must not be understood as a parliament which demands that the negotiations be ended, ended for good. the temporary nature of the aid must be emphasised. in this sense, we need a list of criteria which will allow us to resume our work later, if such a resumption is of course on the agenda in ankara, because it is indeed possible - let us be aware of this, let us also take our responsibilities - that mr erdoğan decides, as a result of our gesture, to end everything. but at least let's keep it nuanced and responsible.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me at the outset, and in order to properly frame this exchange, recall that the european union has a clear position, set out in our council conclusions, to pursue the two-state solution. the same two-state solution that since oslo has been identified as the objective of all israeli governments, of the palestinian leadership and of the international community. this to us is a clear position and also a clear objective not only of ours, but also that we share with the rest of the international community and of the parties. as the july report of the quartet points out, action is needed to preserve the possibility of achieving this goal that is commonly shared, at least formally. stopping the expansion of settlements is an integral part of the efforts to keep the solution of two viable and contiguous states on the table. the so-called regularisation bill, which passed a preliminary reading in the knesset would allow for the ex-post legalisation of israeli outposts in the occupied west bank. it would enable essentially the confiscation of the private property rights of palestinian land owners in the west bank for the benefit of settlers. this would mean crossing a new threshold, even under israeli law, for the settlement enterprise in the west bank. it would also mean the exact opposite of what the quartet that has called for, namely preserving the two-state solution. the debate in israel on the regularisation bill has not concluded, but the choices are clear: either to uphold the principle of the two-state solution, or to go down the path of a one-state reality which will only lead to further conflict and instability at a time when the middle east needs all the stability it can get. the choice belongs to israel, but i believe it is only normal that we express our own views as any friend would do. the quartet report on which the european union has worked very much has identified the process to retroactively legalise outposts as a threat against a two-state solution. there is an international consensus on this because the report is the result of common work we have done. it is true there has been a strong eu involvement and leadership in this, but we’ve done this together with the un, the us and the russian federation. so these statements that we have in the report of the quartet that we presented in july is a statement that we share with our friends in the international community. we have a very detailed description in the report of the situation on the ground, and a shared assessment of the risk it poses to peace. but is also important to keep in mind that the debate on the regularisation bill is controversial inside the israeli leadership and inside the israeli society, and that the process is still open. the israeli attorney general himself has been very explicit that this bill is unconstitutional under israeli law, against previous rulings by israel’s supreme court and in breach of international law. a final decision, as i said, has not been taken yet and i hope that the israeli government and legislators will do the right thing. we are in contact with the authorities in israel and we’ve made the position of the european union very clear to the government of israel. we will continue to follow developments on this issue very closely together with member states. let me stress here the european union is fully united on this issue. as we also reflected in the quartet report, our goal remains to help find a new path to successful final status negotiations. we need to rebuild the conditions for a peace process that can bring results – as i said several times in this house, not a process for the sake of a process – actually today even more than before we need to preserve, recreate political conditions and i would say that today even more than yesterday, it is crucial that the european union builds and preserves international unity on this issue. today is more important than yesterday, both on the fundamental coordinates of the two-state solution and on the way to get there. our role is more important than ever today. our regional partners can also play a major role in promoting and supporting a solution. the arab peace initiative in particular, with its vision for a comprehensive arab-israeli peace, remains a key basis and offers significant opportunities, including with regard to regional security that i believe would be extremely beneficial for israel itself. at the same time, we know that real peace requires a real commitment from the israeli and palestinian leaderships and this is why the internal israeli debate is so important to us. we’ve talked about settlement policy, where we sometimes differ – i would say often differ – from the israeli government, but there has also recently been some positive steps such as plans and pyramids for palestinian construction inside area c and this was also not uncontroversial at all within the israeli government and opinions. so i believe we should not only criticise when we do not agree, but also acknowledge what we see as positive steps and encourage more of this and also more ambitious steps that lead to real progress on the ground. so let me conclude on a more personal note. two months ago i was in jerusalem for the funeral of a great israeli man and a great man of peace, shimon peres. it was a very sad moment also for me personally, i had known him for many years, and yet it showed that hope is still alive. an important gesture came that day from president abbas – his presence at the funeral in jerusalem and the handshake with prime minister netanyahu were little steps in the right direction, a little moment of hope. and the night before the funeral i had the opportunity to have a long meeting with prime minister netanyahu, in which he recognised, as peres did, that only peace can bring security to israel. so in difficult times for the middle east we need to keep our eyes wide open, not only for the extremely worrying developments but also for any glimpses of hope and seize every opportunity that comes our way to make it grow. i know this parliament will keep its attention high both on the worrying developments, but also on the opportunities for peace, and encourage and accompany our work for making them grow.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, my group wanted to change the title of this debate. unfortunately, we have not succeeded, but our position remains the same. in the current context in the middle east, it makes little sense to discuss the situation in the west bank, including the settlements, in isolation from the rest, given the many facets of the israeli-palestinian conflict. if our objective is to move towards peace, i don't think our debate is very useful if we focus on the colonies. this is reflected in the quartet report of july, which identifies as obstacles not only this issue but also terrorism, incitement to violence, the proliferation of armed groups and the lack of unity on the palestinian side, as well as the very tense situation in the gaza strip. we should address the whole situation, because all these things are obstacles to peace. secondly, the settlement issue must indeed be resolved through negotiations, but with the other contentious issues, such as borders, security arrangements and the status of refugees on both sides. the problem is that the peace negotiations are now at a standstill. our efforts should be directed towards creating an environment which allows the resumption of serious and effective negotiations. we all know that there is no alternative and no possible substitute for direct negotiations between israelis and palestinians. the question is very clear, it is the palestinians who are now refusing to negotiate. finally, i believe that europe must give serious thought to how to take account of the new international situation in its approach to the middle east peace process. between an increasingly active russia in the region and on this issue in particular, and the uncertainty surrounding the new us administration, there is a chance for europe to play a more assertive role in peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative mogherini, we will commemorate next year 50 years of occupation and peace is still completely absent. since we embarked one year ago on an unsuccessful structured dialogue with israel, demolitions are on the rise and new settlements have been decided. it is important to stop this trend, not only because this is a loss of european taxpayers’ money, but because we have to stop further displacement of palestinian families living in this area and ensure that european aid goes effectively to those in need. there is no doubt that israel has an obligation to respect international humanitarian law and to stop the expansion of settlements in this area and beyond. israel is our partner in one of the most important and most insecure regions on earth, one of the few reliable partners in the middle east in turmoil. but israel has to assume its responsibility for its actions as a sovereign and democratic state, and to ensure the respect of its own international commitments and democratic principles that it stands by. the establishment of the settlements as it stands today have been repeatedly and almost unanimously condemned by the international community. this effectively divides the west bank and makes the possibility of a viable palestinian state more remote. indeed, continuing on the current path will make the prospect of a two-state solution remote while this is the only outcome to achieve an enduring peace for the two sides who need it, the israelis and the palestinians. therefore, the main objective of the eu should be to further invest in the middle east peace process. furthermore, both sides, the israelis and palestinians, have the responsibility to revive this process for the sake of their own citizens. it is essential not to let the states solution unravel and i really hope the new leadership in palestine will act equally for peace.
madam president, it would be very important to underline here in this amphitheatre that the israeli government declared on many occasions that it is eager to discuss in direct peace talks any issue in dispute, including the settlements, as agreed upon with the palestinians in the framework of the oslo accords. as declared, israelis are committed to achieve peace with all their neighbours, including the palestinians. we should remember there were a number of proposals made by israel since 1967, like in 2000 in camp david, in 2001 in taba and in 2008 by the then-israeli prime minister, considering that israel could make territorial compromises. it goes without saying that israel has a right to live in peace without terrorist threats and attacks coming from a terrorist entity on its southern border that calls for israel’s destruction. as well, we have to emphasise the fact of the right of the palestinians to live in peace and security. last but not least, the settlements are indeed a standing issue to be negotiated together with other disputed issues.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank you all for this debate, which was, as always, very open and frank. it is not the first time we have debated the situation in the west bank although it is, i believe, the first time we have done so with a specific focus on settlements. i have noted that this is an issue on which, sometimes, we have more unity among the member states than we do in this chamber, which is perfectly fine and normal for me. be sure that our work on the two—state solution and all its implications is – and remains – a top priority for me and for the european institutions. on a personal note, i will add a comment – which i remember i have made already in this chamber in one of our recent debates on the middle east and on israel—palestine in particular – namely that i sometimes note, with a certain degree of embarrassment, that some members of parliament, and sometimes the most vocal and the most convinced in asking that this issue should remain our number one priority, are, for as long as they are speaking, extremely convinced that it is a top priority, yet as soon as they switch off their microphones they leave the room. once again, there are not so many of us here to discuss this. so, please, if you really believe that this is the number one priority, and you say the european union should be consistent, then at least spend these 15 minutes in the chamber and demonstrate with your actions what you say. i am sorry, but this is, for me, a matter of personal consistency. i am sure we will have other occasions to discuss this, and i hope that, next time at least, those who are asking me to do more will at least stay in the chamber for the entire debate – which is not asking too much, at the end of the day. obviously i very much appreciate those of you who have stayed. firstly, we are working very actively with the regional powers and with the international players. some of you referred to the fact that the next us administration might have a different approach to this issue, which will place on our shoulders – and is already placing on our shoulders – a responsibility even greater than that which we have borne in the past. we are fully exploring these possibilities, but with an approach based on working with the parties in israel and in palestine and working with the regional powers. here again. we are giving this issue more attention than some of the regional powers are at the moment, as they are distracted by other crises. sometimes – i will tell you very openly – i feel that we, as europeans, are the ones who are working more convincingly on this. it is constantly on our agenda, both in the council and here in parliament. i realise that this is no longer always the case for other partners around the world, and that is why i put such emphasis on the need for us to build, preserve and nourish regional and international unity on this, because the european union is a key player here in terms of working with israel and working with palestine. however, this will not be something we manage to do alone. we will need, especially, the arab countries, particularly around the arab peace initiative and the arab league. that is why i am glad that this is going to be one of the issues we discuss at our eu—arab league ministerial summit in december. we need to build the common vision and common action in the region and in the international community. there is a lot that you can do. i appreciate – and i took note of – all the suggestions about what i can do on my side, both on the commission side and on the council side. but let me stress that you, as members of parliament, do have power and a role, if you play it, because the european parliament is part of the european union and its institutions. i appreciate, in particular, what ms sehnalová mentioned about the meeting with the knesset members. your parliamentary contacts with the knesset are particularly important with a view to passing a message and working to create space for political decisions to be taken on the israeli side. the same can go for the palestinian side. for instance, an issue that is particularly important to me – so much so that i focused most of my introductory remarks on it, and i noticed some of you have also underscored it – is that of the decisions the knesset is taking at this moment, in these weeks, with the preliminary indication that has already been passed and the decisions still to be finalised. this is the time for members of the european parliament to liaise with, and reach out to, members of knesset and to pass on your own vision of what is happening, establishing contacts in a constructive and frank working relationship. parliamentary diplomacy can help a great deal and complement the work we can do at our level. this is encouragement for those of you already doing this, and also a plea for you to think about what you can do yourselves. we would be more than glad to coordinate and work together, as we often do in this respect because, again, there are key moments – and i believe this is one of them – when the decision—making process is still open and decisive messages can be heard. i would like to make one last point, which was not raised in the debate tonight although i am convinced that it is a key element today more than in the past, namely that we should focus our actions especially on supporting the conditions for peace in the respective societies in israel and palestine. in particular, investing in the peace camps on both sides is something that is becoming quite urgent because the old generation is the one that was living in the days of the oslo process, while the young generation has grown up with the despair of seeing oslo not implemented. i believe that specific work that the european union could do – fruitfully and in a very positive manner – would be to invest in the younger generations, on both the israeli and the palestinian sides, to work for constituencies for peace on both sides. at the end of the day, we will need such a basis if we want to create the right conditions. thank you very much for all your contributions and our exchanges, which i always enjoy hearing. i am sure that we will come back to this debate soon. again, work on my side personally continues. i invite you also to take some steps on parliamentary diplomacy, especially at the present time when decision—making in the knesset, especially in relation to settlement legislation, is open. i think you can effectively contribute to our work in the weeks ahead.
in writing. – the international community agreed on the two-state solution at the oslo accords and the israeli government and the palestinian leadership should continue negotiations on this main objective in direct peace, even though there might be issues in dispute, such as the settlements, as agreed upon between israelis and palestinians in the framework of the abovementioned accords. the settlements are indeed a standing issue to be negotiated, but together with other disputed issues, such as the final borders, security arrangements and the status of refugees from both sides. i strongly believe that peace is achievable if both sides are willing to talk to each other and if both sides are willing to make the sacrifices necessary for peace. in this matter, the european union should play a stronger role in supporting the conditions for peace.
rapporteur. – madam president, before i begin i would like to welcome the presence of the high representative at this debate as usual, which reflects the fulfilment of her obligation of consultation with parliament according to article 36 of the lisbon treaty, which should have governed our debate in the first place. if in 2003 the eu leaders were announcing to the world that europe has never been so prosperous, so secure nor so free, now, 13 years later, they are forced to recognise that we live in times of existential crisis within and beyond the european union. naturally, we should ask why is that. how did we get there? what have we done wrong? but primarily, we should ask what should we do to respond successfully to these times of existential crisis, and strengthening csdp is a major component of that answer. that is why the report is of the opinion that a thorough and substantial revision of the csdp is needed in order to enable the un, its member states to contribute in a decisive way to the security of the union, to the management of international crisis and to asserting the eu strategic autonomy, recalling that no country can face the current security challenges on its own. in the relative benign security environment prevalent until now, the eu and its member states could allow themselves to actuate csdp mainly with crisis management performed in relative distant places. now the conflicts around us have multiplied and have become intertwined, spilling through terrorism and refugees into the eu area. security and defence is no longer only a cry for help coming from a proud defence industry confronted with increasing difficulties like it was the eu council on defence in december 2013. now security and defence is a major, if not even the main concern of european citizens which was finally heard by the eu leaders. consequently things started to move, and only last week the implementation plan on security and defence has been approved by the member countries. and that, let me tell you, that surprised us, and we had to introduce a number of amendments in order to synch the report with the realities in the field. the commission in turn has advanced a number of defence-related initiatives, for instance the defence action plan and the defence industrial policy, getting involved in a support of a pilot plan on defence research run by eda, the only institution we have for that kind of activity whose role would have to be strengthened in consequence, and instilling more flexibility in the instrument for peace and stability. naturally, this is a big step compared to the current practices. the eu money was not used for defence and is already resisted in this parliament. however, if we really want to defend our union we should be prepared to make this step because otherwise we would continue to linger on in this complacency which brought us where we are today. in the end, i would mention the relationship with nato, guided now by the joint declaration signed in warsaw last summer. the relationship should be one of cooperation and not competition. the eu needs to acquire a degree of strategic autonomy, particularly for situations where it might have to rely mainly on herself. let us not forget that nato is a collective defence alliance and not a company whose unprofitable branches could be shut down. born from the lessons of two world wars, built with sacrifice by all the member states, and meant to defend and promote the values which brought us together in the eu too.
and for the first time, we're seeing soft power surpass hard power in actual influence. in the face of this new reality, both the union and the member states are unprepared and vulnerable. this report, together with the commission's efforts, will increase the union's capacity to act in this regard. member states must engage in a thorough and rapid rethinking of the common security and defence policy. this includes the commitment to allocate 2% of gdp to defence. at this point in time, the union cannot ensure the protection of citizens and institutions against manipulation or cyber attacks. we still need cooperation and complementarity with nato. the same register should take advantage of the transatlantic partnership, especially in the context of limited resources. more than ever, the union needs to support the strengthening of the defence industry and research, and this needs to be reflected in the financial allocation for the remainder of the current multiannual financial framework. i would like to congratulate mr pascu and support a positive vote and hope that the directions indicated will become institutional practice as soon as possible.
mr president, the increase in the security of the eu member states will certainly require a diversification of the forms of european defence cooperation in the future. this is true even if nato's defence capabilities and resources as a military alliance are irreplaceable. at the same time, defence cooperation could also contribute to the further development of european integration as a whole, since it would require cooperation and openness between member states in one of the most sensitive areas. the development of defence industry, cyber defence cooperation, joint defence research opens up a whole new area of integration, and may be just what europe needs today, with so many fault lines. building greater trust between member states in this important area can benefit the eu as a whole. it is important to emphasise that defence cooperation is for peace, as a continent that cannot respond to the challenges of the times will be weak and vulnerable, and this could lead to internal tensions.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think i can raise a point of order myself. i am entering my seventh hour in this hemicycle today. this is a very important debate so i am glad to hear everyone’s views, but if you take all the catch—the-eyes at the end and all those who come into the room speak, it is not fair – not only for me, because the president changes but i am here for seven hours in a row, but it is also not fair for the following debate, which is a very important one. i apologise, but this might mean that at a certain point in the next debate – which is very important, mrs fotyga’s report on eu strategic communication – it will obviously be squeezed a bit. i do not think this is fair to our way of working. first, i would like to stress the fact that the report is excellent. the work we are doing on the common security and defence policy is not being done, because of the uk referendum. i understand that our friends from the uk might think that everything revolves around this, but the global strategy was prepared and presented during the previous year and presented just the day after the result of the referendum. it has been done and it is work we have to do because it is necessary for the security of our citizens, and, as long as the uk is in the european union, this work will go on with the 28 all together. it also strikes me a bit that precisely those of our colleagues who have indicated that their country will be leaving the european union are the ones who feel so strongly about the future of european defence cooperation. i also understand that some would like to stay plugged in – you will sort out amongst yourselves what you want to do in the future, and then we will discuss it together. but the european union will certainly continue to implement the decisions we have already taken with the 28, as i said – and i am glad about that – on concrete ambitious steps to strengthen the common security and defence policy. it is not about the eu army, and it is not about duplication with nato. nato is perfectly happy with what we are doing, because this is also a way of strengthening nato. we are working—hand—in—hand together. it is not about building new, big headquarters; it is about being effective with the instruments we could have tomorrow if the political will is put in place and the financial resources are dedicated. it is not necessarily about spending more; it is about spending smarter, because in times of budget constraints – and some of you mentioned this – the only way for europeans to invest smartly in defence is by doing it together. so, as the european union helps, supports and accompanies member states in many fields to the advantage of european citizens, from agriculture to infrastructure (i don’t want to go into other issues here), we can do the same on defence and make it more effective, more constructive and easier for member states to work effectively in defence. no member state alone – some of you mentioned this – can face security challenges today if not in cooperation, and our security is interconnected. we have seen it in recent months and in the last year and a half. whenever we face a serious security threat in one of our member states, all european citizens can be targeted, so we have a collective responsibility to work on our security together. the integrated approach – soft power and hard power together, the european way – is what will be done more and more, so it is not about choosing hard power versus soft power. the european union is the only player in the world that can use both hard power and soft power instruments in an integrated manner. again, nato is the first to recognise that we have instruments that nato, as a military alliance, does not have. i will continue to work in a very committed way, together with parliament, to advance this agenda in a very pragmatic, but also very ambitious, manner. for me, this is also a test of the lisbon treaty. some say i have two hats, but i actually have three, and i will use the three of them in this work, with the support, i hope, of the european parliament, as head of the european defence agency, vice—president of the commission for commission competences on the industrial and research part of it, and certainly as high representative and as chair of the council, both in the foreign affairs and defence ministers formations.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would say that whatever the high representative says about the european army is not feasible; it is not on the radar. whatever you would say, for instance about the headquarters, does not matter. some people want to refer to this because this is the only way to attack. so i sometimes wonder whether we are really sending the right message. well what kind of a message should we transmit, because the right one, the most explicit one, is not taken seriously? mr van orden, who is a convinced pessimist with respect to european defence and will remain like that until the end, is somehow ignoring the fact that we also fought in mali, for instance. in the future, africa will probably be an area of responsibility where we will have to fight, so from this point of view i would not be so dismissive of this possibility. our friend from ukip is trying to tell us, or to tell me as the author, what i did not say and is attacking me on that. well, i am not a british citizen to be told the reasons why we should leave the european union with lies, for instance that subversion is fought with european soldiers. it is not fought like that. subversion is fought with the means there, that there are military who counter the propaganda which is used for subversion. that is a different story, but i would say that, from this point of view, many things have to be accepted as inevitable. i am very glad that mr bütikofer, who has been my, shall we say... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – please allow me to conclude.
in writing. the deterioration of the european security environment, generated by the increase in the number of threats, whether conventional or hybrid, has led to an increase in the sense of insecurity among european citizens. according to the 2016 eurobarometer 85.1 survey, around two thirds of them want the eu to become more involved in security and defence policy issues. in this context, i believe that measures should be taken to enable both the more efficient use of existing csdp instruments and the creation of new, relevant instruments that make it possible for the european union to intervene in any type of crisis management action, from prevention to resolution. the european foreign and security policy must also be unified and there must be better cooperation and coordination between member states. only in this way, together with effective funding, will the effectiveness of the psac be increased and a strong collective defence be achieved. last but not least, i think it's unfair to rely on the investment coming from the us alone. the united states of america must be seen as a partner, and not just as the sole provider of security and stability in various parts of the world, including europe. these are the reasons why i welcome this initiative.
vice-president of the commission. – thank you, madam president. last week, the oxford dictionary named ‘post-truth’ the word of the year 2016. ‘post-truth’ describes a situation – and i quote from the dictionary – ‘where objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief’. this phenomenon has always existed, for sure, but it has become even more relevant in the age of internet. we know that the quality of the information is not always what makes content go viral. social media and search engines tend to promote contents that confirm the user’s views instead of challenging them, and we all understand how relevant this can be in political terms, including for our european union. so i am glad that the report we discussed today has given this parliament the opportunity to reflect on such a delicate and crucial issue, where not only security has to be taken into account, but also everyone’s freedom of expression. as the report states, exposing this information is an important task and i am glad that the report commends the work carried out by our east stratcom task force. it is clear from the task force’s work that the challenge coming from this information is not receding. let me thank the parliament for its close interest and support for the work we have been doing with the task force over the past year, as well the member states who have contributed to the team. i can only welcome the proposal that this parliament this advanced to strengthen both our east and south task forces on strategic communication. as i mentioned, both of them – stratcom east and south. let me stress that our work on this information is very different and depends on a case-by-case scenario. this information can be contrasted with fact-checking and rational arguments. the propaganda of terrorist groups, like daesh, needs instead to be confronted first and foremost by taking down illegal content from the internet. to address the issue of the accessibility of terrorist materials, the commission has established an internet referral unit at europol that actively scans for terrorist content online and refers it to the internet companies. so far we are still in the initial phase; we have referred over 15 000 pages, and in 90% of cases the material has been removed. yet we know that this part of our work, however crucial, cannot be enough. what matters even more is to explain what the european union is doing and how it is making a real and positive difference to the lives of so many people inside and outside the european union. now the report tackles with the issue of propaganda by third parties, but let me say that this is an issue that would be interesting to see inside the european union, starting maybe from this very hemicycle. we need to give voice to the people who have benefited from our policies, amplify the positive stories, simplify the messages and talk about real life. the truth – to the east, to the south and inside our union – is that this positive added value of the european union has to be more visible. this is why we have put public diplomacy among the key areas of implementation of our global strategy. so the east stratcom task force is doing this, providing expert guidance to our delegations; working closely with governments in the eastern partnership region and with the commission; reaching out to a russian-speaking audience that want better access to information about the european union in real time in russia and from a source they can trust. similarly, the task force south is addressing arabic-speaking communities in north africa and in the middle east together with our delegations. in particular, it is engaging with young people, working closely with the anna lindh foundation, talking to the youth of the region, but also listening to their concerns and their aspirations. last but not least, we need to engage with civil society, young leaders, independent journalists and ngos – credible voices that often lack the skills or the financial resources and sometimes the space – the freedom – to express themselves. so our policies are also aimed at improving media plurality, both to the east and to the south, helping journalists get the training, the networks and the quality information they need to do their jobs. our new young mediterranean voices, for instance, will twin young journalist with more senior professionals and reach out to the media industry. so to conclude, in this post-truth era, the european union must stick to objective facts and at the same time appeal to emotions, personal beliefs and motivations. we have so many stories to tell that are positive. stories of reform against corruption or innovative start-ups, stories of reconciliation or economic growth, and the future of our union will also depend on our capacity to tell these stories, explaining the facts and reviving the passion for our european project. we can start in this parliament.
on behalf of the epp group. this report is a timely warning. the battle for the minds and souls of men is no longer an open debate, but a well-funded, technologically advanced dirty war. it is to the credit of the reporter, ms. fotyga, that she addressed this urgent and delicate issue before the effects of hostile propaganda became irreversible. russia and isis are investing heavily in this campaign, which aims to instill fear, discredit the eu and undermine the democratic idea. what can the eu do? the report proposes solutions with specific reference to the european external action service and the eastern partnership countries. but there are some things that can't be legislated. without them, the enemy propaganda flourishes. that means we can't beat propaganda with propaganda. the only way to defeat her is to tell the truth. our politicians must have the courage to drop the cliché. the press, which recently lost credibility in the us election, must return to solid news journalism, otherwise public distrust will grow and propaganda will find enough room to maneuver. the adoption of this report is a step forward. critical thinking, honest education and courage of politicians must be the next steps.
madam president, this report was drawn up on the initiative of the ppe group and we are very pleased that mrs fotyga, who had the report on behalf of the conservative group, has done a very good job. it is important to discuss now this counter-propaganda that we all have in view, except the extremes, left and right, because we are at a time when many voices are talking about a normalization of relations with russia. the idea of standardization is completely out of place when we see what is happening in reality: the manipulation of the media by the russians, the blackmail with the energy charter and the illicit financing of organizations and political parties, including in this parliament. in the face of russian propaganda, we need a clear strategy, but also more money for the action plan on strategic communication. the committee on foreign affairs has approved the provision of additional funds for the implementation of this plan in next year's budget. it's also important to understand the importance of freedom of the press, because what the russians don't like, what our extremists don't like, is freedom. they want coercion, they like putin's dictatorship and they're fascinated by this one-man rule. therefore, the real answer to give to these people, to putin and his friends from the left and the right, here from the extremes, is freedom, that's the word.
madam president, we have just heard how russian propaganda works in this house. it is strong evidence. allow me now to speak in romanian. propaganda rusească și cea practicată de daesh sunt evident diferite ca și metode de lucru, dar scopurile sunt în egală măsură toxice și, aș spune, mortale, pentru proiectul european înainte de orice. în ucraina, propaganda rusească a acoperit și justificat ocuparea crimeii, a utilizat atacurile cibernetice pe scară largă și, în sfârșit, a urmărit divizarea pozițiilor între statele membre ale uniunii europene. pentru cei care se întreabă dacă propaganda rusă este sau nu reală, îi invit să citească o carte faimoasă, la france russe, publicată de un foarte respectat jurnalist de la le monde, și să asculte evaluarea șefului serviciului secret german despre riscul ca alegerile din germania să fie afectate negativ de intervenția rusească. am două propuneri, doamnă președintă, zece secunde. cred că trebuie să practicăm identificarea...(președinta a întrerupt discursul vorbitorului. )
(begining of the speech without microphone) ... and honest about is that there will be no successful eu global strategy and european neighbourhood policy if we do not have a credible and effective eu strategic communication. if we look at the russian disinformation warfare in the eastern partnership countries – and not only those countries – i think we have sufficient reasons to feel nervous, and if you want to see how propaganda has already translated into political gain, just have a look at the presidential elections in the republic of moldova. i believe that we must first address the visibility of what the eu does. if we do not explain our work and our achievements, we only provide fertile ground for propaganda. less visible means more vulnerable. second, we need to work on the framework and the legal deficits that allow propaganda to flourish. this means added funding to support media freedom and pluralism. third, we must ourselves counterbalance disinformation with impartial and objective information. for this, we need a stronger and reinforced eu strategic communication task force.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the world of work is rapidly changing before our eyes. large shifts in trade patterns and technology and the increasing sophistication of industry, as well as the overall decline of industrial employment, are having profound effects on europe’s working population. jobs, often elementary in nature, are ever fewer, and jobs of low qualification are becoming more and more demanding. with the decline of traditional manufacturing in many places in europe, low-skilled workers are the ones who tend to lose out. it does not help that more than a quarter of eu citizens aged between 25 and 64 have not gone beyond lower secondary education and, as the oecd survey of adult skills shows, a similar share of people perform at the lowest level in literacy, numeracy and problem-solving skills. this is why i welcome the commission initiative on the skills guarantee, because of all the initiatives put forward in the new skills agenda it deals with the most vulnerable people within the labour market, and i believe that, if properly implemented, it could help deal with long-term unemployment too. what i would like to know from the commission is how it plans to ensure that, when implementing the programme, member states target systematic measures that address the specific needs and issues they are faced with and base their programmes on well thought—out strategies instead of financing ad—hoc measures which have a lot less of an impact.
approximately 70 million europeans, almost the entire population of france, are currently unable to read, write or do basic arithmetic. i've heard of digital skills before. this is a very worrying reality and i feel that the member states are not fully aware of it. this huge population, and not just those over 25, is at constant risk of unemployment, poverty and exclusion. they need support urgently. that is why i support your initiative and that of the european commission. i am aware that this initiative has not been received with the same enthusiasm by all the european institutions or by all the member states. i think this is due to a misunderstanding of the purpose of this recommendation. it intends to provide additional support and guidance to member states in improving or, in some cases, even establishing national strategies for the development of the basic skills needed by the labour market. despite the considerable difficulties of this programme not being binding on the member states and the lack of additional european funds, i am pleased that yesterday the european council agreed on this recommendation. following the evaluation received, the european commission must now re-evaluate the implementation strategy and, in my view, it must ensure at least three things. first, all stakeholders in society, from the public sector to the private sector, must be involved in implementing this strategy. secondly, the commission must provide good training to member state governments in accessing and interconnecting existing european funds. last but not least, the european commission, together with the member states, needs to identify the best ways to inform data subjects, because they often do not have access to the information they need and, in fact, to the information intended for them. this initiative can be extremely useful for all member states, including my country, romania, and i believe that after such a painful economic crisis, people need an extra guarantee, security and new opportunities.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the european labour market faces challenges like never before. in a digitalised world, the skills demand is constantly shifting towards new jobs, making low skilled jobs as well as traditional jobs obsolete, outlining the flaws of the educational system and leaving a big segment of the workforce unemployed. the commission proposal considers that something must be done for those with low proficiency in basic skills, literacy and numeracy and digital skills and recommends a set of policies and initiatives to support them. the proposal limits itself, however, to addressing only the effects of a wider problem without questioning why these individuals lack basic skills. is school drop—out one of the reasons? is poverty a possible answer? i would welcome more commission research into the causes of this lack of skills, be they poverty, unsustainability of educational systems or the need for mentality change, rather than seeing that the eu is once again focusing on patching up only the damaging effects of a problem. if this phenomenon is not tackled appropriately, the number of people without basic skills will simply repeat itself. therefore, i urge the commission to have a holistic vision towards the labour market and address its issues with strategies aimed at repairing its faults.
in writing. the main problem in the labour market today is the level and type of skills that european citizens have. the gap between the training provided by schools and universities and the skills required of potential employees, the lack of career guidance for young people, the lack of a transparent job market or the inability of the training system to develop the skills required by employers are all exacerbating the current crisis in the european labour market. in this respect, i support the initiative to create a european-level skills guarantee modelled on the youth guarantee. this platform would provide a significant number of europeans with free access to labour market-compatible training, while also helping them to acquire the necessary skills for entrepreneurship. we need every european citizen to feel protected by the european union, we need those in difficulty to be able to recover and reintegrate into the labour market, and it is time for structural reform in the allocation of european funds to generate concrete results for people.
madam president, i warmly welcome this initiative to promote sign language recognition and the availability of sign language interpretation. while the recognition of sign language has been increased in many member states recently, across the eu deaf, deaf-blind and hard of hearing citizens still encounter enormous disadvantages in terms of access to information or employment. only in my country, romania, more than 23 000 people face difficulties on a daily basis in this regard. knowing that the ratio of sign language users to sign language interpreters is 160 to 1 on average in europe, it is clear that europe needs a lot more qualified and professional sign language interpreters. improvements in this field should also be accompanied by the promotion and uptake of new emerging technologies in the area of accessibility in order to promote the independent and equal participation of people with disabilities in society.
mr president, commissioner, environmental care must be a permanent concern, because it can help reduce health-related costs and save lives. i'm a proponent of improving the quality of the environment. however, i believe that any action we take in this respect must take into account the reality on the ground, the correlation between the proposed emissions targets and the country's gdp, the investment and re-technologisation opportunities, the pace of research in this area. that's why i disagree with what my colleagues said, that there's too much flexibility in this report. i claim that there is not enough flexibility, and i will give reasons why: for example, for sulphur dioxide, my country has set a reduction target of 77% and the netherlands 28%. i know that the netherlands loves romania very much, it has had problems with entering the schengen zone. it says here that 400,000 people die every year, but how many people die of poverty? how many people die because they can't learn, can't get an education, or because of the conditions of life? so we have to think economically, not destroy jobs. and i would vote for this report if the commissioner promises to convince mr juncker that this strategic investment fund should also be given on a geographical basis, so that we can lift areas out of poverty that are now in poor living conditions.
rapporteur. – mr president, because i was not offered the opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this result and to this report yesterday, i am doing it now. thank you very much. (applause)
in writing. ‒ i approve the parliament calendar of part—sessions for 2018.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the parliament’s calendar of 2018 part-sessions.
in writing. ‒ the geostrategic component of ceta is important for romania not only from an economic point of view, but also from the broader perspective of the eu-canada and romania-canada bilateral relations. i therefore rejected the motion for a resolution on requesting the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of ceta with european law in order to allow the provisional application of a substantial part of the agreement as early as the first part of 2017. i believe that a request by the ep for the opinion of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) would have resulted in the prolongation of the uncertainty regarding the position of the european parliament (and by implication of the eu as a whole) on ceta. i therefore consider that this initiative is not appropriate, given the declaration already annexed to ceta in which belgium clearly stated its intention to seek the opinion of the cjeu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the decision to request the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on the conclusion of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement, as such a request would have both positive and negative aspects. first, it would prevent the provisional application of the agreement and would have the consequence of prolonging the uncertainty over the european parliament's position on ceta. canada is an important economic partner for the european union. the prevention of the provisional application of the agreement could have negative economic and political effects, including on the implementation of the provisions related to the abolition of visas for romanian citizens. on the other hand, i did not want to be seen as not wishing to give the court of justice the opportunity to examine the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties. i thought it was good to be sure that there are no incompatibilities in the agreement that could cause harm to member states and smes.
in writing. ‒ once ceta enters into force, the eu and canada will immediately and completely abandon some tariff lines for industrial and fishery products, and the rest after transitional periods of up to seven years. the same applies to agricultural products. secondly, in the area of public procurement - an area that is sometimes underestimated but has the potential to be worth hundreds of billions of dollars - ceta brings significant liberalisation, meaning that european firms will be able to bid for public contracts in canada at all levels of government (with some limitations in the provinces of quebec and ontario). all of this will bring more business opportunities, a bigger market, increased exports and more jobs. experts estimate that the eu will have an annual gain of €12 billion. romania will benefit from the reduction in areas such as the production of leather and footwear products, agriculture, automotive components, ceramics, textiles. in addition, as part of this agreement, romanian citizens will no longer need a visa from 1 december 2017. the 28 member states have agreed unanimously, and as such support the implementation of ceta as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ such a request is not justified, since the legal service of the european parliament has issued a written, unequivocal and public opinion on compatibility. the adoption would have had the effect of postponing a vote in the european parliament for years and, more importantly, postponing the provisional application of parts of the agreement that bring immediate benefits to european citizens (including romanians) and in respect of which no doubt was expressed as to compatibility. beyond the economic aspects, ceta and the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement have an important geostrategic component, helping to strengthen bilateral relations at a difficult time for europe and the western world in general, when both europe and canada need stability and political dialogue partners with common values. the national interest of romania requires the early replacement of the old private investor-state arbitration system (isds) with the new investment court system (public system) contained in ceta. any delay in the procedures allowing for the entry into force of ceta is therefore against romania's interest. ceta is currently being considered in committees, mainly in the international trade commission, of which i am a member. the european parliament's plenary will vote on this important file in february 2017.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution regarding the compatibility issue between ceta and the treaties following the european parliament’s legal service assessment that found no contradiction between ceta’s investment chapter and the eu treaties.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain from voting on this report proposing to request an opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the eu-canada economic agreement, because i did not choose to be part of a dispute between the eu and one of the member states, namely belgium, which, due to internal disputes, wants a delay in the application of this treaty. i think that the discussions should be conducted more in the context of the problem, on the analysis of the benefits that this agreement will have for our countries and decide on the basis of them. last but not least, i cannot ignore the fact that the eventual entry into force of ceta would mean the elimination of visas for romanians to enter canada, and a delay of one and a half years, necessary to obtain an opinion from the cjeu, would most likely have annulled this agreement between the romanian and canadian authorities.
in writing. ‒ the impact that the eu-canada agreement proposes will change the lives of european citizens forever. i consider it imperative that, before the application, signature and provisional approval of this agreement, the european parliament should seek the opinion of the court of justice of the european union in order to clarify any remaining legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union with ceta.
in writing. ‒ ceta provides several economic benefits for the european union. in the case of romania, we are talking about encouraging the development of important sectors thanks to the elimination of canadian customs duties. this is an opportunity to further strengthen bilateral relations with the canadian state, which has for many years presented itself as a stable partner for the eu. considering that ceta offers long-lasting positive effects for the romanian citizens, i am voting against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the request for an opinion of the cjeu on the ceta agreement. a request by the ep for the opinion of the cjeu would have prevented the provisional application of the agreement and would have led to the prolongation of the uncertainty regarding the position of the european parliament and, by implication, of the eu as a whole with regard to ceta. i therefore considered that this initiative was not appropriate in view of the declaration already annexed to the ceta in which belgium clearly stated its intention to seek the opinion of the cjeu. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the conditions for granting the visa waiver are met.
mr. president, health care caused by pollution costs us between 330 and 940 billion euros a year. it's an enormous amount of money. however, they have not led to exhaustion and eliminated pollution, but on the contrary, we continue to have cardiovascular disease due to pollution and also to have respiratory disease. it must be said very clearly that these are premature deaths caused by pollution. so the money we're spending, i don't know what we're spending it on. maybe they go to places where nothing is happening, but they just go to the sand and not to people and to eradicating pollution. secondly, pollution is an economic problem, not just an environmental problem. it is a generator of economic loss, increases costs and decreases productivity. very simply: it needs to be monitored carefully, money needs to be spent transparently and we need to check where it goes and what happens to it, and we also need to invest in innovation to actually eradicate pollution and not just talk about it for years.
in writing. ‒ about 90% of europe's city dwellers are exposed to pollutants in concentrations above air quality levels considered harmful to health. in europe, the total external health costs associated with air pollution are estimated at eur 330-940 billion per year. although action has been taken to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states do not comply with agreed standards. the eu is thus still far from meeting its long-term objective of adopting and complying with the pollution limits recommended by the 2005 who air quality guidelines. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that to take a sustainable path, europe will have to show ambition and not just stick to the current legislation, and without the application of effective basic legislation, member states will not be able to meet their emission reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec leads to a different positioning for certain member states. in the case of romania, at the end of the negotiations, it was imposed emission reduction targets that were disproportionate to gdp, investment capacity and the state of technological development, despite its constructive approach, demonstrated by its significant voluntary contribution to raising the level of ambition of its annex ii targets. i consider that the emission reduction targets in this directive need to be realistic and feasible in order to reduce the negative consequences of air pollution on human health, while at the same time considering that they need not affect economic development. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ eu legislation is based on sound and comprehensive impact assessments. air quality is an environmental and human health issue that knows no borders, directly affects every citizen of the european union and requires immediate action. after many years of neglect, air pollution has returned to the centre of the political agenda as a major public health concern. in europe alone, the total health costs associated with air pollution are estimated at eur 330-940 billion per year. although action has been taken to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states do not comply with agreed standards. i voted for more effective regulation and for a reduction in the administrative burden for both businesses and member states. the european union is still far from meeting its objective of adopting and complying with pollution limits.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's position on the commission's commitment to smarter and more efficient regulation at european level and to reducing the administrative burden for both businesses and member states. the directive on national emission ceilings should also be on this line. i also believe that for the long-term success of this directive we need: reliable data, improved information exchange, proper monitoring and accurate reporting both for national emission ceilings and for all the basic legislative instruments.
in writing. ‒ we must urgently tackle premature deaths as a result of toxic air pollution – which amount to over 400 000 in the eu. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. i agree to support the full inclusion of ammonia but to exempt emissions of enteric methane produced by ruminant livestock from the directive. i welcome the fact that we raised the overall level of ambition of the directive, by changing the ceilings for nitrogen oxides (nox) and setting binding targets for 2025 to ensure linear reduction of emissions. it is important to establish requirements for drawing up and updating of national air pollution control programmes and ensuring emission reductions from road transport and other sources.
in writing. ‒ i believe that action at european level in the field of environmental protection must be real and that the correlation of reduction targets with each country's gdp and investment, re-technologisation and research opportunities must be taken into account. that is why i voted against this report. i think that environmental care has to be permanent because the impact of an unhealthy environment on the population can be devastating, but we have to consider other aspects that affect the population. the fact that the netherlands has set for romania, for example, a target for sulphur dioxide of 77%, while the netherlands has only 28%, is another reason why i cannot vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this directive which is an important step in addressing the high risks to human health and the environmental impact of air pollution. it has been found that there are 400 000 premature deaths every year due to air pollution, with an estimated economic cost to health of between eur 300 and 900 billion every year. high levels of air pollution, which are harmful to human health, affect around 90% of europeans. urgent action is needed to reduce hazardous pollutants covering all sectors concerned, thus reducing the number of deaths by almost half by 2030. as a result of the entry into force of these measures, governments in the european union would be forced to ensure and take responsibility for polluting sectors. member states must take measures to reduce air pollution and implement the directive, and step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
in writing. ‒ ranked as a top health hazard in europe, air pollution is the cause of premature death of hundreds of thousands europeans. a rational solution is to transform primarily our urban systems by adopting for example low-carbon mobility and energy efficiency strategies, hence applying stricter binding targets for eu member states to reduce their atmospheric pollutants would be a driver for a sustainable and greener adjustment. i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because ambitious targets for the period after 2020 are essential in order to save lives. the industry should seize this opportunity to become fully compliant with eu legislation and, in the long run, this is consistent with cost-efficient results.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting this report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the emission reduction values in this directive should have been realistic and feasible to have a sure target, namely to reduce the negative consequences of air pollution on human health. i do not therefore believe that the efforts which are required of the member states should dramatically affect their economic development. in the case of romania, the emission reduction targets have been disproportionate to our country's gdp, investment capacity and technological development stage, and i consider this unprofessional and incorrect.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants because i considered, together with other romanian meps, that the european union's ambitions and objectives in terms of reducing the effects of pollution at european level must take into account gdp, the capacity for medium and long-term investment, the technological and economic development of the member countries. as regards the effect of imposing this proposal in romania, i considered it imperative that the percentage of reduction of polluting emissions established by this proposal be realistic and relevant and not adversely affect the economic and industrial process in romania.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution in support of better air quality and improved public health. air pollution leads to chronic, debilitating and fatal diseases which are, in many cases, avoidable. complying with the new limits may be challenging, but there are a number of flexibilities in the directive which will help, including the non-binding nature of interim targets. such big changes, bringing with them significant improvements to public health, cannot happen immediately. but setting ambitious targets for the long term health of people and society is critical. preventing disease is not only the best option for the individual – it also delivers the biggest savings to society in the long run through lower health and social costs.
in writing. ‒ given that we cannot say that we have clean air at the end of 2016, the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants bodes well. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and by 2030 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. of course, reaching national emission limits by each member state requires european financial support for each polluting sector, depending on the degree and intensity of the negative impact of the respective pollutants on human health and the environment, so that the desired european green economy is achievable.
in writing. ‒ air pollution has reached alarming levels in the member states of the european union. every year, no less than 400 000 premature deaths are caused by pollution, and the economic costs are estimated at around eur 300 billion. it is also estimated that almost 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to this type of pollution that is harmful to human health. for these reasons, the european union has decided to adopt regulations to significantly limit this negative phenomenon and to halve the number of premature deaths by 2030. toxic emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds other than methane and ammonia are targeted. the ceilings imposed at national level are insufficient to manage the situation and therefore regulation at european level is required. following difficult negotiations, the commission's proposal was accepted, with a number of amendments, by the council in july this year. although the resulting document could have been more ambitious in terms of targets, it is a decisive step in the fight against pollution and needs to be adopted as soon as possible in order to generate concrete positive effects. i support the adoption of this report.
mr president, the financial crisis has shown us that we need criteria, solid standards and principles for prudential regulation of banks. for this reason, i welcome the post-crisis work of the basel committee on banking supervision. it proposed to revise the standard approach for the calculation of potentially risky assets. the banking sector needs to be negotiated and standardized in a very serious and regulated very serious way for people to ensure fair competition in the market and financial stability. fair competition both in the banking market and competition - how to say - between banks, which provide all the guarantees for the population and for the people. banks play a key role in financing the european economy and remain the main source of financing for the economy, including for small and medium-sized enterprises. i think that in a few years, there will come a time when banks will look very different and have a much smaller role in the economy and in our daily lives. but that's another discussion.
in writing. ‒ i consider that banks should be an efficient component of our economy and not an element of risk. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid the repeat of the enormous bailouts witnessed during the crisis. the ongoing work of the basel committee should promote the level playing field at the global level by mitigating – rather than exacerbating – the differences between jurisdictions and banking models and not unduly penalising the eu banking model. a risk-based approach to regulation is key, with the same rules being applied to the same risk.
in writing. ‒ the banking system should be an efficient component of our economy and not an element of risk. banks have to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy and reduce systemic risk. moreover, the initiatives of the basel committee should promote a level playing field at the global level, by working on mitigating the differences between jurisdictions and banking models, and not penalising the eu banking model.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on the third basel accord.
in writing. ‒ it is paramount that banks are an efficient component of our economy and not an element of risk. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid the repeat of the enormous bailouts witnessed during the crisis. the ongoing work of the basel committee should promote a level playing field at the global level by mitigating – rather than exacerbating – the differences between jurisdictions and banking models and not unduly penalising the eu banking model. a risk-based approach to regulation is key, with the same rules being applied to the same risk. i therefore support parliament’s resolution that underlines key issues that could help to achieve greater transparency and accountability in enhancing the legitimacy and ownership of the basel committee (bcbs).
mr president, europe has been and remains vulnerable to terrorist attacks, to the security problems we have and to other problems (the migration crisis and so on). we are living all of this today and we see the world changing every day. and we remain vulnerable because the member states are not reacting in a coordinated way, some of them have different policies and different views, we are not exchanging information -- and this is about law enforcement agencies -- and because our databases, the european databases, the national databases are not complete, they are not being filled with accurate, timely and complete data by the member states and also some of them are not communicating with each other, so there is no interoperability between these databases. it's very difficult to fight terrorism or other dangers in these conditions. secondly, we also have colleagues in the european institutions and in the european parliament who simply do not believe that there is any measure that can prevent, for example, terrorist attacks or ensure the security of citizens. i mean, some people take it as a moft or they take it as an intrusion into their privacy and that's it. they don't think about the safety of the citizens, and, again, they don't take it seriously. all of this has to be resolved between us, but on the other hand, it has to be submitted to public opinion. and lastly, i apologize for the delay, one thing: they are for european armed forces, but in no way should they replace nato. we must work together with nato and we must ask the new president of the united states for guarantees that nato will continue to defend europe and especially central and eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing an arc of instability. to the south, isis and other terrorist organizations are increasingly in the middle east and north africa. in the east, russia's hybrid war against ukraine, the illegal annexation of crimea and hybrid tactics, including cyber terrorism and information warfare, used to destabilise eastern partnership countries represent the most urgent threats to the security of the eu. i support the ep motion for a resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the cfp instruments should remain an essential tool in the overall approach. the intensity of the hybrid threats we face is unprecedented. the future common strategic framework should focus on concrete and feasible proposals to help counter hybrid threats and promote eu and member state resilience. the joint strategic framework should be developed in full coordination and with regular consultation of nato, which will develop its own response to hybrid warfare. a unique opportunity to align eu responses with those of nato should not be missed.
in writing. ‒ the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming increasingly volatile, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. member states are highly interdependent in terms of security and react in an uncoordinated and fragmented way to common threats and dangers, complicating and often preventing a common approach. the european union is obliged to respond to the emergence of increasingly complex crises, it must step up dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region and it must be prepared to deal with structural changes in the international security landscape. i voted for the integration of cyber security and defence as core elements of the common security and defence policy, given that conflicts and crises in europe and its neighbourhood take place both in the physical and cyber space. legislative reform is needed to allow defence industries to benefit from the same state aid as us industries.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the call for an eu white book on security and defence and a stronger defence industry, and i welcome the european defence action plan. i believe it is time to reform the athena mechanism for financing the missions and operations of the eu. i think it is the right moment for us to push for a bolder approach to eu defence, towards a full military alliance. the european union and nato must divide their tasks to avoid duplication of efforts. we must reach a common position and encourage steps towards a substantial autonomous defence capacity for the eu, aiming at protecting its citizens and promoting its values and interests, with full respect for the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i believe the csdp should have a strong cooperation with nato. however, the eu must have an autonomous defence capacity. as such, i fully support this project.
in writing. ‒ due to developments in the last years, the security in the european union has deteriorated thus becoming a more complex and dangerous and less predictable issue. i have voted for this report. i have voted for this report that will enable a revision of the csdp in order to enable the eu and its member states to better contribute to the security of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because member states should coordinate their security and defence investments and improve their financial support for defence research at eu level. strong commitment, adherence and support from member states and national parliaments, in close cooperation with all relevant eu bodies, are needed to ensure the swift and effective implementation of the global strategy for the european union's foreign and security policy. a future eu defence research programme should fund research projects in priority areas agreed by member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it recalls the strong interdependence of member states in terms of security and raises the alarm about the fact that they are reacting in an uncoordinated and fragmented way to common threats and dangers. the report also finds that europe lacks the resilience to respond effectively to hybrid threats, which are often cross-border in nature. another element that led me to vote for this report is that it highlights the negative impact of the military occupation on the security of europe as a whole and reiterates the idea that any change to the borders of ukraine is a departure from the principles of the un charter and the helsinki final act.
in writing. ‒ the deterioration of the european security environment in recent years, manifested by the multiplication of conventional, unconventional and hybrid threats, calls for the strengthening of the union's common security and defence policy (csdp). the rise of the terrorist phenomenon generated by radical islamic organisations and the emergence of complex crises near the union's external borders require a stronger response from the member states within the common framework established by the csdp. in this respect, there is a need for better coordination of the defence capabilities of the member states, while intensifying cooperation with existing structures within nato. it would also be useful to support the european defence industry and reform the athena system for financing eu military missions and operations. the adoption of an eu white paper on security and defence would be an important aid to the mapping of the main priorities in this area. the adoption of the european defence action plan (edap) and the european defence research programme (edrp), together with the strengthening of the role of the european defence agency (eda), are likely to strengthen the cfsp and enhance the security of european citizens. for these reasons, i support the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr ioan mircea pașcu on the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy. the report proposes a detailed and in-depth review of the csdp, taking into account the fact that the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming increasingly volatile, complex, dangerous and unpredictable. i agree that a successful revision of the cfsp will need to fully involve eu member states from the outset of the process, to avoid the risk of future deadlock.
mr. president, george orwell said: "if thought corrupts language, then language corrupts thought". propaganda gives birth to other people and a different mindset. we've seen this in the past at home, in romania, in other post-communist states in central and eastern europe, and unfortunately, we see it today. the russian federation has waited, has been patient for years, has built and now attacks. they're attacking all over central and eastern europe. he's attacking through propaganda and he's already started to move into direct action. you use the russian language, you buy licenses in these post-communist states - you buy licenses for television and radio stations that will broadcast, or are already broadcasting, directly in the russian language. so people's minds will be converted, drop by drop, by russian propaganda. we all need to see and stop being naive that, yes, history can repeat itself if we're not careful. yes, we can fall back into the russian sphere of influence, maybe more than influence, if we're not careful and if we don't believe that, indeed, it's possible. let's not imagine that we have won freedom and democracy once and for all. on the contrary, now is the time when russia is attacking us again and it is imperative that we come together and unite and wake up the people, that the people do not understand and do not believe.
in writing. ‒ eu member states, as well as their citizens, are facing increasing pressure from countries and non-state actors to disinformation and propaganda. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report regularly to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. this information warfare was first used in particular by the soviet union during the cold war and has since been an intrinsic component of modern hybrid warfare, which combines overt and covert military and non-military measures. i voted in favour of the report on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda by third parties against it because i believe that the most honest and realistic communication is needed to avoid the misinformation that currently exists in the media, communication that is beneficial both for the well-being and safety of the eu member states and their citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that russians’ activities in europe represent a hybrid threat that seeks to influence public opinion and decision-making processes, clearly aiming to weaken eu coherence and undermine eu policies. nowadays we have to face a wide range of dangers, including the hacking of emails and websites, media manipulation, backing for anti-government demonstrations and political support for russia-friendly populist parties. i support the report as i believe we need to start taking the actions of third parties as a very serious threat for our peace and stability and to tackle information, disinformation and misinformation campaigns and propaganda from countries and non-state actors. moreover, it is time to develop a counter-narrative to isil/daesh involving the education system, including through the empowerment and increased visibility of mainstream muslim scholars who have the credibility to delegitimise isil/daesh propaganda.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which, although it points out some real issues in terms of misinformation and manipulation to which we are all subject in a society highly dependent on the media, i do not think it is necessary. i don't think it's our role as a public institution to intervene and regulate mass communication. i come from a former communist country and i have a growing reluctance to censorship, to the restrictions imposed by the authorities on the media, because the media censors itself by its own rules, by its own regulations and by the public. the mass communication space, for all its shortcomings, deserves our trust as partners in a society where each power has its own sphere of influence. last but not least, i chose to abstain from voting on an agreement that practically puts russia and isis in the same category, which i consider to be a lack of diplomatic tact and an unnecessary incitement.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the information society, the development of content, models, structure and theories of communication generates opportunities and pressures for systemic and integrated approaches to communication at eu level, so that not only the successful model of the eu with all its values, principles and achievements is known, but also countries are attracted to be part of that model. in this respect, the eu must prioritise its strategic communication efforts, involving relevant resources and actors, which correspond to a proactive approach both within and outside the european community. strategic communication, assuming a cause-and-effect relationship between communication activities and the achievement of eu objectives, brings to the fore the role of communication associated with strategic management within the eu. moreover, the eu needs to develop effective communication strategies to promote respect for fundamental rights and freedoms through its actions (internal and external), involving not only local communities but also all stakeholders, using the new technologies generated by the digital economy, with a view to developing synergistically positive information flows towards the eu in general.
in writing. ‒ the european union has recently become the target of systematic campaigns of discrediting, disinformation and propaganda poisoning by certain countries and non-state actors. these practices stem from the threat posed to european values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms by certain international actors that do not share these values. this is a veritable information war, practiced especially by terrorist organizations like the islamic state and al-qaeda. to counter these subtle attacks from outside, the european union needs strategic communication measures that expose these attempts to european citizens and avoid discrediting the european project within the member states. in this regard, close cooperation between the european institutions and the member states is needed to monitor the sources of funding for anti-european propaganda, support media in the european neighbourhood policy (enp) countries, support journalism education within and in the eu neighbourhood and effective communication with citizens. however, i believe that this document needs a number of improvements and differentiated treatment between states and non-state actors.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report on eu strategic communication to counter third-party propaganda against the eu focuses on hostile propaganda against the eu that takes different forms, using tools tailored to the profiles of member states, with the aim of distorting the truth, creating doubt, dividing member states, promoting strategic decoupling between the european union and its north american partners. we voted in favour of this report which recognises that the eu must prioritise its strategic communication efforts, which should involve relevant resources, and which calls for the eu and its member states to take consistent action at union level against hate speech systematically promoted through various channels. the report argues that an effective communication strategy must involve local communities in discussions about eu actions, support people-to-people contact and give due attention to cultural and social exchanges as key platforms for tackling prejudice against local populations.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the eu charter of fundamental rights and the un convention, it is imperative that the eu combats discrimination on the grounds of disability and develops the necessary measures to ensure autonomy, social and professional integration and participation in community life for persons with disabilities. it should also be noted that there are currently around one million sign language users and 51 million citizens with hearing impairments, many of whom use sign language. i believe that people with disabilities, as full citizens, women and children, or deaf and hard of hearing people, especially those who use sign language and those who do not, have equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment and independent living. in this context, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional interpreters in sign language because i believe that there should be no discrimination against people who use sign language.
in writing. ‒ european citizens all have full rights, whether we are talking about people with disabilities, especially women and children, and especially deaf and hard of hearing people. these persons use sign language as a means of communication with other persons, and therefore have equal rights and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. sadly, this is made difficult by the use of sign language. i therefore support the need to ensure the training of qualified and professional sign language interpreters, and the necessary measures are the official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and in the eu institutions, formal training (at university level or similar, equivalent to three years of full-time studies, corresponding to the necessary training of spoken language interpreters), and registration (official accreditation and quality control system, such as continuing professional development).
in writing. – the european parliament resolution seeks to improve the situation of the sign languages, their access and availability, and strengthen the role of professional sign language interpreters, in order to step up the fight against discrimination based on disability. access to high-quality sign language services and measures of reasonable accommodation need to be strengthened in order to ensure equal treatment and participation of persons with disabilities in society.
in writing. ‒ there is a great need for developing new language technologies and high quality sign language interpreting services. moreover, there needs to be more involvement of representatives from the deaf community.
in writing. ‒ all persons with disabilities, including deaf and hard-of-hearing persons have equal rights and are entitled to equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that stresses the need for qualified professional sign language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ deaf and hard of hearing people are citizens with full rights, who must not be discriminated against and who must have access to services and information like any other person. the most important role in this regard is played by qualified and professional sign language interpreters, unfortunately too few in number compared to sign language users. their profession must be officially recognised in each state and appropriate vocational training must be given the same importance as the necessary training of spoken-language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this resolution. there are many challenges on the issue of sign language, but as we consider those challenges we should not forget about the situation in this house. i have already addressed my concerns directly to the president about the availability of sign language interpretation in the european parliament. i have organised two events on parliament premises about disability issues and i am sorry to say that many improvements still need to be made to ensure people with disabilities have proper access to this institution.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that the eu (charter of fundamental rights) explicitly prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability, supporting the equal participation of persons with disabilities in society. i voted so that all deaf people, who face the lack of professionalism of sign language interpreters, can successfully engage in all areas of socioeconomic life, enjoying inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. at the same time, taking into account that the eu promotes multilingualism and, by implication, the learning of foreign languages, sign language must be included in the curricula in order not only to promote and learn sign language (like any other foreign language), but also to create the necessary conditions for the development of accessibility (of information and communication) for people with disabilities. in this respect, the official recognition of the profession of sign language interpreters and the granting by the various institutions (starting with the eu institutions) of the same status as spoken language interpreters with regard to the interpretation services they provide to the institutions and/or their staff or designated officials, including access to technical and material assistance, is a desirable and a pressing need for persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ there is currently a shortage of qualified sign language interpreters. i would like to emphasise that people with disabilities are full citizens and must be treated equally, ensuring all the necessary conditions for their active participation in society. in this context, i believe that the member states of the european union should encourage the learning of sign language in the same way as they do with foreign languages. an important element is the development of manuals in formats and languages that are accessible to all. at the same time, official recognition of regional and national sign languages in the member states is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the motion for resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing approval of the active substance bentazone because bentazone is controlling volunteers of herbicide-tolerant crops and is safe when used appropriately. bentazone is important for european farmers, being one of few ingredients which controls broad-leaf weeds in post-emergence of those crops. the active ingredient has a different mode of action which make it a key tool in resistance management in controlling difficult weeds like ambrosia, datura, matricaria etc. furthermore, bentazone has not been identified as an endocrine disruptor under the current interim criteria. moreover, this motion neglects the significant impact such measures can have on european farmers, regarding their productivity, competitiveness, and sustainability.
in writing. – the objection does not focus on the characterisation of the substance and whether bentazone itself should be banned or re-authorised, but it is based on the authorisation process itself as the commission (once again) proposes to re-authorise an active substance for the maximum period possible (15 years) while at the same requesting confirmatory data to evaluate its safety. this is against the eu ombudsman’s ruling from february 2016 (case: 12/2013/mdc), against the provisions in the regulation 2009/1107 and against any logic of evaluating safety of pesticides. the severity of this objection might be not as high compared to the objection on active substance glyphosate but the principle of respecting the existing law is crucial. otherwise we would find ourselves in a position where approved substances in the eu are, in some instances, unsafe and/or not in accordance with relevant legislation. the commission should take into account all necessary data confirming safety of a given substance before issuing the authorisations. the approval period should be proportionate to the possible risks inherent in the use of such substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the authorisation process of plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this objection to the use of bentazone, which expires on 30 june 2017, but whose draft measure approves the renewal of the authorisation of the substance for another 15 years (until 31 january 2032). the commission shall take into account all necessary data confirming the safety of the substance before issuing authorisations. the period of approval shall be proportionate to the risks, if any, inherent in the use of such substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in the product authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is used as a herbicide against broadleaved weeds in a broad range of crops in agriculture. i have voted for this motion for a resolution that requests the commission to assess and complete all relevant information before taking a decision regarding the approval of use for this substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone and to submit a new draft. the active substance bentazone is the most commonly detected authorised pesticide in water, as it has a high potential for direct infiltration into groundwater. we invite the commission and the member states to fund research and innovation in the field of sustainable and cost-effective alternative solutions for pest control products, with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because of doubts about the process for approving active substances and the possible implications for health and the environment. there is great concern that the commission is using the confirmatory data procedure too readily, which can mean the approval of substances which have not been fully analysed. the european ombudsman has raised concerns about the fact that substances can be approved without understanding the extent of their potentially harmful effects. in this case, the risks relate to mammalian toxicology, ecotoxicology, and the environment. these are important data gaps which should be addressed before authorisation, not years afterwards.
in writing. ‒ the health of european citizens is one of the priorities of the union and its institutions. the presence of harmful chemical compounds in agricultural products used in the food supply to consumers as a result of the use of weedkillers is unacceptable. one of those compounds is the active substance bentazone and is currently used in the agriculture of the member states against broadleaf weeds in a wide range of crops. at european level, it is the commission that authorises the use of these products, usually for a period of 15 years. however, in this case, the commission extended the approval period until 30 june 2017 as a number of adverse effects on pregnancy and foetal development were identified following tests on mice and in view of the completion of tests on surface water. if these indications are confirmed, the compound should be included among the endocrine disruptors and prohibited. in these circumstances, the draft implementing regulation drawn up by the commission cannot be approved, as it represents a risk to the health of european citizens. i support the adoption of this resolution.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, you acknowledge, by what you said, that this violence exists and you said that ratifying the convention does not solve the problem. what would be your solution to the problem? because if it's what you said, that at the national level everything would be solved, why hasn't it been solved until now?
unfortunately, accession to the istanbul convention would not mean that violence against women would be eliminated in the member states all at once. today, there are countless examples of governments doing a lot of work in this area. abuse statistics are skewed to the downside, since in many cases no consequences or reports follow an abuse, especially if it is within the family. yet, the fra analysis is telling: one in three women has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. violence against women is a crime, and this must be understood by european citizens and those who come to europe. accession to the convention would bring a change in the way state authorities could coordinate their action against violence against women and domestic violence, and would have to develop separate policies for crime prevention or victim protection, which would be monitored by international experts. it is a pity that the delay is delayed, because the implementation of the provisions is postponed and the improvement of the situation cannot begin.
in writing. on 25 november we celebrate the international day for the elimination of violence against women, but unfortunately, there is little progress in combating violence against women and gender-based violence. the statistics have not improved, and women are still beaten to death in eu countries. on 4 march 2016, the commission proposed the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument on preventing and combating violence against women at international level. all the member states have signed it, but only 14 have ratified it. the european commission has a duty to encourage member states to ratify the convention or at least to review their legislation to ensure that it is in line with the convention. the scale of physical and sexual violence against women across the union requires renewed attention from policies in this area and immediate action. we can no longer remain indifferent.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2016.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr werner langen on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs entitled 'towards a definitive vat system and combating vat fraud' (2016/2033(ini)) (a8-0307/2016).
thank you. milk and honey is the promise ...
mr president, lately everyone seems to have been speaking in french, but unfortunately i shall be speaking in english. vat is a major and growing source of tax revenue in the european union. however, the current vat system is too vulnerable to fraud and too cumbersome and complex for businesses that wish to expand beyond a member state in which they are established. i would therefore like to welcome the outcome of the report, which puts forward proposals to improve the vat collection system, eradicate vat fraud and reduce red tape, highlighting the need to reform the system with the aim of achieving a single eu vat area and thus helping to promote employment, growth, investment and competitiveness. however, there is one aspect i would like to stress: we need to assess carefully the consequences of the reverse charge mechanism and to examine whether this procedure would simplify the situation for small and mediumsized enterprises and reduce vat fraud, because it might, in practice, create more loopholes and increase the vat collection loss that it is intended to address.
mr president, i support the report and consider it important, especially from two perspectives: the problem of fraud and the problem of smes. i'm not going to talk about fraud anymore, because there's been a lot of talk. but i would like to stress the problems smes face from several points of view. of course, fraud puts a lot of pressure on smes themselves, but the existing system, set up in 1993, is complex. smes, when they want to work cross-border, face different declarations and a major burden. the commission must consider a single form of declaration. a new, simplified system for smes is needed, which can be easily implemented. commissioner, i am glad that you have a programme and want a threshold for exempting smes from vat. but have you thought about the pressure and the cost that a small and medium-sized enterprise has when it imports technology, machinery? have you thought about making a difference here? because an sme can recover vat on the installations it imports or buys for years, perhaps because of the low turnover. so maybe here you can think of something to differentiate the import on technology.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the current european vat system was introduced 23 years ago as a temporary system. this system has encouraged tax fraud in trade between member states within the single market. finally, the european commission has recognised that a switch to a vat system based on the payment of vat in the country of origin is not possible. the european commission is therefore proposing to maintain the vat system based on the payment of vat in the countries of destination of exported goods and services. this is the right solution. however, we need to find the best solutions to stop vat fraud, namely for importers to declare, on their own initiative, their vat obligations for imported goods and services. unfortunately, the european commission's proposals in this direction are still not convincing.
the next item is the debate on the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (recast) (com (2014) 0167 - c7-0112/2014 - 2014/0091 (cod)) (a8-0011/2016).
sometimes there has to be a trade-off between keeping strictly to the time and communicating practically. this time i chose communication.
the better you work now, the better you will feel when you are my age. please remember that!
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and those who have worked directly on this report. i think that first of all we have to recognise that pension systems based on the principle of 'pay as you go', i.e. on intergenerational transfer, are outdated in the context of the ageing trend of the population across europe and, of course, the increasing mobility of the labour force. that is why we must encourage pension systems in which each individual contributes to his pension fund for the whole of his working life. and occupational pension schemes fall into this category. that is why i congratulate the european commission and support the commission's proposals and those contained in this report. i would point out, however, that in some member states, when occupational pension schemes are in sectors financed from the public budget, we must avoid excessive contributions from the public budget to these schemes, because it is nothing more than an intergenerational transfer through taxes paid.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in the european union, the gender pension gap is on average 39%. the commission should therefore propose actions and possible structural changes that are necessary to ensure equal pension levels for women and men in all member states. one solution would be to encourage member states to develop complementary schemes contributing to the second pillar pensions in order to eliminate the gender pension gap and guarantee women's access to decent pensions. these institutions for occupational retirement provision are a vital part of the european economy, holding assets worth eur 2,5 trillion on behalf of some 75 million union citizens. given that at european level we have hundreds of thousands of crossborder workers who have a job in another member state, i think it is important to find a pragmatic solution for those institutions that decide to run a scheme in another member state. this could lead to significant savings for those institutions, improve the competitiveness of the sector at union level and facilitate labour mobility.
in writing. – i welcome the commission’s action plan against wildlife trafficking, as the eu needs a coordinated response to wildlife trafficking, which is a serious and growing problem in europe and globally. it is an organised international crime worth billions, and linked to other forms of serious crime such as money laundering and the financing of militias. in addition to being a security issue, wildlife trafficking also endangers biodiversity and ecosystems. it is essential to protect vulnerable and endangered species of flora and fauna to meet the un’s sustainable development goals. therefore, it is important to follow the key priorities set out by this action plan, namely to address root causes, effectively implement and enforce rules, increase global cooperation, and address internal trade. member states need to increase protection of target species and habitats, especially for those that are vulnerable. furthermore, as wildlife trafficking is a global issue, there needs to be dialogue and cooperation with source, transition, and destination countries.
in writing. it is widely recognised that wildlife trafficking is another of the most profitable forms of international organised crime, which is on the rise worldwide. such a regulatory initiative is salutary, as wildlife trafficking is a negative phenomenon, organically linked to other forms of serious, organised crime, with a negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystems, member states' heritage, natural resources and species conservation. moreover, wildlife trafficking undermines the overall security, political stability and socio-economic development of the eu. as such, the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking requires an eu-wide strategic approach based on the cooperation of all stakeholders, not just the actors involved in this negative phenomenon. in order to achieve an adequate eu wildlife trafficking plan, it is a welcome initiative to consider the model and mechanisms used to combat trafficking in human beings. the development and implementation of mechanisms to monitor member states' measures and progress in this area should also be linked to the dissemination of results and awareness-raising campaigns among stakeholders with a view to changing their behaviour at individual and collective level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like, from the outset, as co-rapporteur for the s&d group, to thank the rapporteur, mr riquet, who created a good atmosphere and good collaboration in the team he led. the report was very important for me and my group because we were able to propose improving the situation of smes by creating new opportunities for these smes in the field of transport. these are challenges for small transport businesses and we, the parliament, the commission, the council and the national authorities must support them. that is why i consider this report important and i hope that it will be supported and voted on by all the political groups. in the report, i stressed the need for member states and the commission to take appropriate action to tackle anti-competitive practices by large integrated groups. the commission should increase transparency and we ask it to publish a roadmap on the release of publicly funded transport data. we must not run away from the truth: small businesses cannot enter publicly funded national or even international urban transport precisely because of the large integrated groups. i have proposed several amendments to this report and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the way we have negotiated the compromises. the report also refers to social dumping and to social protection and consumer protection. the report calls for the establishment of cooperation structures between small transport enterprises, research institutes and local and regional authorities, with the aim of better organising urban and inter-urban mobility, in order to respond effectively to the emergence of services and products, including those offered by smes. i am also co-chair of the sme intergroup and we have had a lot of discussions on sme issues, including those in the transport sector. mr riquet mentioned many of them: access to finance, the problem of documentation, bureaucracy, costs. the report calls on the commission, in collaboration with national, regional and local authorities in the member states, to develop a communication platform to advise and train smes, as it has been found that smes, especially small enterprises, often avoid expanding into the transport sector because of the increased risks involved in cross-border activity. we need to understand better, commissioner, that small transport enterprises are inherent in european mobility, smes are creative, innovative, but they need to have a favourable environment to develop. we need to support small businesses to turn challenges into opportunities, especially in ict. the sharing economy model has also made its presence felt in the field of transport, with more flexible forms of work, and this is beneficial. we must not forget that small transport enterprises are particularly important in hard-to-reach regions, in remote regions, in rural areas, but also in the periphery of urban areas. that is why this own-initiative report of the european parliament is important and i support its vote. i would like to conclude by thanking once again the colleagues who tabled the amendments and the rapporteur, mr riquet, who took an objective position in the negotiation of the compromises. i hope, commissioner, that you will take account of the recommendations in the report.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the spectacular growth of the digital economy is about to radically change the transport market. i welcome mr riquet's report, which gives us the opportunity to reflect on new business models. these, it is true, come with new services and a degree of flexibility that is hard to match for traditional players, but also with a number of new challenges, especially if we are talking about balancing competitiveness and maintaining social rights. in this context, we should start by asking: what is our role as legislators in the face of the challenges brought by the sharing economy phenomenon? in other words, can we apply the old rules, adapt them, or come up with some new ones? it is essential that the european parliament sends a clear message that it supports innovation and that it can turn the current debate into a concrete set of rules for market players. i also believe that the success of a single and integrated transport market depends on the existence of common rules for all member states. as a left-wing mep, i believe that technological advances can bring significant improvements for transport workers too, especially in relation to the abuses linked to... (the president withdrew the floor of the president. )
mr president, in the current context, the ombudsman's efforts should focus on the abuse of power by the european administration. in recent times, the institutions created precisely to ensure stability, security and economic growth, through the excessive powers they have gradually attributed to themselves, have only hindered the solution of urgent problems such as, for example, migration and the exit from the economic crisis. the most serious abuse of power is the failure to respond to the demands of the citizens. the public consultation procedure is not just a formal step in the legislative process. this consultation should be reflected in the final political decision. the reporting of shortcomings within the european commission itself is a serious wake-up call. i strongly recommend that the european ombudsman use the powers conferred on him by article 228 of the treaty and carry out as many activities as possible on his own initiative, in particular to check how the european institutions are complying with their own regulations.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, as my colleagues have said, ildar dadin is a russian citizen who has been protesting since the 2011 legislative elections against the way politics is done in russia. she was arrested for allowing herself to go in front of the moscow secret police. the painting looks like it's from the soviet era and not from a normal country. she's being tortured in prison right now, and the authorities have acknowledged that, they haven't hidden it. this is completely unacceptable. unfortunately, with this regime, some of the european parties want, and we saw in the debate we had a few days ago on the fotyga report, to normalise relations. it is absolutely unacceptable what the extreme left and the extreme right want to do in contempt of freedoms.
on behalf of the ecr group. it's been a thousand days since russia annexed crimea. in the kremlin, putin is courting the last dictator, the president of belarus, it's lukashenko. in parallel, he is planning to establish a joint army with the breakaway region of abkhazia. now we're talking about the imprisonment and torture of the opposition leader for organizing demonstrations, demonstrations for peace, for democracy and for anti-war, a man who is in prison and who is being tortured, ildar dadin. of course we demand the immediate release of ildar dadin, but we have to think about talking about the soviet system, about the russian system, because it's still soviet, and about what putin wants. a little bit of everything he does is to take charge, to be somebody and to take charge of the world we live in. he started on this road and he won't stop. in the kremlin, people's lives don't matter anymore.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries directly affected by the crisis in syria. since 2011, its economy, based mainly on services and industry, has been clearly affected by the turmoil that has shaken the region. the jordanian authorities have also provided the commission with information on the implementation of the measures taken by the union in the context of the current crisis. in 2015, unresolved conflicts in neighbouring countries continued to disrupt jordan's foreign trade. in response to the crisis and to meet its residual external financing needs, the european union has already provided jordan with macro-financial assistance amounting to eur 180 billion (award decision in 2013, payment in 2015). the eu should continue to support jordan in addressing the challenges it faces. jordan is engaged in a recent but increasingly close partnership with the european union, which is its second largest trading partner. following the association agreement, concluded in 1997 and entered into force in 2002, jordan committed itself in 2010 to an 'advanced status' partnership with the eu. i voted in favour of this report, given that the european union must show its support for its partner, whose policy on the reception of refugees requires respect.
in writing. ‒ given its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries directly affected by the crisis in syria. since 2011, its economy, based mainly on services and industry, has been clearly affected by the turmoil that has shaken the region. the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment, the blockade of trade routes and the repeated disruptions to the supply of natural gas from egypt have hampered jordan's economic growth and had an impact on its budgetary situation. in the last five years, the number of foreign residents has doubled. jordanian authorities say there are about 1.4 million syrian refugees in the country, and public services are barely keeping up with the numbers. i voted for the macro-financial assistance agreement to enter into force as soon as possible, so that jordan can benefit from it at this crucial time.
in writing. ‒ the conflict in the neighbourhood has exacerbated the economic difficulties jordan has been facing in recent times: the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment, the blockage of trade routes and the repeated disruptions to the supply of natural gas from egypt, on the one hand, and the increase in unemployment - which affected 14,6% of the working population (33% of young people in the labour force, 23,7% of women in the labour force) in the first half of 2016 alone - on the other. in parallel, 650,000 syrians are officially registered as refugees, and jordanian authorities are even talking about 1.4 million. in these circumstances, the european union must show its support for its partner. i support the position of the rapporteur, who wants the macro-financial assistance programme to enter into force as soon as possible so that jordan can benefit from it in practice at this crucial time.
in writing. ‒ the kingdom of jordan both needs and deserves substantial financial help from the eu. the chaotic regional context massively impacts jordan’s economy, social systems and public services, which makes its debt ratio barely sustainable. meanwhile, its continued commitment in dealing with the refugees’ crisis with dignity (it welcomes around 1.3 million syrians) ought to be praised. thanks to our work in the european parliament the commission will have to propose, in addition to this year’s eur 200 million, an extra macro-financial assistance operation of at least the same amount in 2017. the second macro-financial assistance package will help the country to cover part of its external financing needs in 2016-2017, while supporting reforms aimed at alleviating the balance of payments and budgetary needs, improving the investment climate and strengthening economic integration with the eu. it is also intended to support efforts to boost economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ in jordan unemployment is very high affecting 14.6% of the active population (33% of young people and 23% of women due to the conflicts in neighbouring syria and iraq. despite its internal problems, jordan has taken in a large number of displaced persons and it is estimated that around 1.4 million syrians are present in their territory. i have voted for this report that will provide jordan with a macro-financial assistance in order to support its economic stabilisation and substantive reform agenda.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report, which is very necessary for the continuation of good cooperation between the european union and jordan. i would stress that both the financial and economic policy conditions set out in the memorandum of understanding are in line with eu practices in this area, as well as with the macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform programmes implemented by jordan with the assistance of the imf. despite the economic difficulties jordan is facing, the eu is showing its support for its partner, whose refugee policy has been impeccable, with jordan hosting the largest number of refugees per capita. also, another positive is that jordan has committed to facilitating access to the labour market for the more than 700,000 syrian refugees on its territory, a gesture of generosity and tolerance that we have not seen in any other country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the union's financial assistance to jordan. jordan is the country that has received the most refugees in relation to the number of inhabitants, along with lebanon, and has committed to facilitating access to the labour market for syrians on its territory. currently, 650,000 syrians are officially registered as refugees, and jordanian authorities are talking about as many as 1.4 million. jordan is facing a significant economic deficit and it is therefore crucial that the eu shows solidarity with the jordanian people and supports the jordanian government in managing the influx of syrian refugees.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a stable and long-standing relationship with the hashemite kingdom of jordan, a reliable partner in a very complicated region. jordan has recently been affected by the syrian civil war and the refugee crisis, which have led to an additional influx of migrants in addition to the palestinian communities already present in the country as a result of the arab-israeli conflicts. in this context, the stability of the jordanian state is critical to avoid the spread of crises in the middle east. in this context, the eu, through the commission, decided to provide macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million for the period 2016-2017 to support the vulnerable jordanian economy. this assistance is in line with international support to the region in the context of the syrian conflict. jordan has made significant progress in recent years towards the democratisation of political and social life, which makes it compatible with the granting of this type of aid. the eu is also jordan's second largest trading partner and is about to conclude a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) with jordan. in these circumstances, i believe that this is a necessary step to support democracy in the middle east and i support the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report on the provision of macro-financial assistance to jordan of eur 350 million, which aims at economic stabilisation of the country and a consistent reform agenda. jordan is one of the countries directly affected by the crisis in syria and since 2011 its economy, based mainly on services and industry, has been clearly affected by the turmoil rocking the region. in the difficult context it is going through, jordan is distinguished by hosting a significant number of displaced persons. jordan is the country that has received the most refugees in relation to the number of inhabitants, along with lebanon, and has committed to facilitating access to the labour market for syrians on its territory. jordan is engaged in a recent but growing partnership with the european union, which is its second largest trading partner.
in writing. ‒ the sector of institutions for occupational pension provision is developing in many member states where occupational pensions have until now played a limited role, including through the establishment of regulatory frameworks. higher governance standards, reflecting best practices at national level in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, are needed to protect scheme members and beneficiaries and to facilitate the provision of safe cross-border pensions. regulatory divergences, overlapping requirements and overly burdensome cross-border procedures need to be reduced. these elements constitute barriers to the development of cross-border occupational pension markets. reducing these barriers will help businesses, including smes and multinational firms, to organise their pension provision activities at european level in a more efficient way. i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that the existence of more secure and efficient occupational pensions will contribute to the adequacy and sustainability of pensions by increasing the contribution of supplementary pension savings to pension income.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal that member states grant prior authorisations to those institutions that decide to operate a scheme in another member state on the basis of authorisations allowing institutions to collect contributions from undertakings established in any member state. the management of pension schemes with members from more than one member state should be carried out in full compliance with the provisions in force of the host member state's social and labour law relating to occupational pension schemes, such as: the establishment and payment of pension benefits and the conditions for the transferability of pension rights. in order to ensure legal certainty of the cross-border activities of institutions, the scope of the prudential rules should be clarified.
in writing. ‒ i support the report, as it will improve the protection of members of occupational retirement schemes and will encourage the development of stable cross-border schemes. member states should take into account the objective for all institutions of ensuring the intergenerational balance of occupational pension schemes, by aiming to have an equitable spread of risks and benefits between generations. i support, especially, the national social and labour provisions that focus on the protection of scheme members and introduce, at the same time, the concept of duty of care in order to avoid a regulatory race to the bottom through cross-border schemes. for the first time in eu legislation, environmental, social and governance factors have been introduced concerning investment decision, by also avoiding stranded assets due to social and environmental risks through an ex-ante risk assessment. last, but not least, taking into account that the gender pension gap in the union is 39% on average, i am of the opinion that an extensive study is needed on the impact of different pillars, pensions systems and their structures on both women and men; to ensure equal levels of pensions for both women and men across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu should work on protecting the members of occupational retirement schemes and encourage the development of stable cross-border schemes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that aims to further facilitate the mobility of workers between member states by ensuring good governance, transparency and safety of occupational retirement provision.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report which proposes to create a european legal framework to develop savings for occupational pensions. the economic and demographic crisis we are facing directly affects the future income of people who are out of work. i consider very important the principle that member states will have sufficient flexibility to apply and regulate the requirements of the directive in a way that can reflect the wide variety of pension systems in europe.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure a balance between generations and as social security systems are under increasing pressure, it is necessary to develop secure and stable occupational pensions in all member states to complement existing pension sources, bearing in mind that a viable pension system includes diversification of products and institutions as well as efficient and effective practices. this will enable member states to protect their citizens from poverty when they are old and helpless, which is not the case in some member states today. as such, this initiative to encourage member states to create adequate, sustainable and secure occupational pension schemes, provided through institutions for the provision of occupational pensions, is welcome. iorps, as long-term investors, should operate in accordance with european law and under the full responsibility of the member states in relation to their role and functions, thus ensuring a high level of protection and safety for members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes. in order to achieve this, iorps should implement their corporate governance systems, taking responsibility towards all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (recast). in the internal market, institutions for occupational retirement provision (iorps) should have the possibility to operate in other member states while ensuring a high level of protection and security for members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes. thus, iorps play an important role in the long-term financing of the union’s economy and in the provision of secure retirement benefits. they are a vital part of the union economy, holding assets worth eur 2.5 trillion on behalf of around 75 million members and beneficiaries. in line with the eu law, i welcome the provisions in order to protect members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes, provided that such provisions are consistent with member states’ obligations under union law.
in writing. ‒ the situation in aleppo is dramatic. in spite of the agreement of 9 september 2016 on the cessation of hostilities, the assad regime, supported by russia, is continuing to deliberately target civilians, a humanitarian convoy last week, doctors and hospitals. the water supply have also been cut off. those actions must be strongly condemned, as they are an unacceptable breach of international humanitarian law and could be qualified as war crimes. i would therefore like to express my deepest concern for the human suffering in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout syria, including many women and children, who do not have access to essential humanitarian goods and desperately need food, clean water and medical supplies. i support the call on hr/vp federica mogherini, on the international community and on the united nations to use all necessary diplomatic instruments and pressure to end the indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilians and for the cessation of hostilities to be implemented, respected and prolonged in order to allow full humanitarian access to the besieged areas.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the situation in syria that strongly condemns all atrocities and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, and attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses the european parliament's concern about the situation in syria, which is locked in an endless war, in which political hubris no longer takes account of the loss of innocent human life. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the syrian regime is able to meet its obligations under international law and to ensure that the syrian regime is able to meet its obligations under international law. many of these attacks were directed against the civilian population, especially children and medical and humanitarian personnel, and the report states that these attacks were deliberate. the european parliament also calls for the rights of religious minorities in syria, including christians, to be respected in order to ensure a climate of tolerance, which is so necessary at this time.
in writing. ‒ the situation in syria has escalated to an ongoing massacre, with numerous civilian casualties and a serious shortage of food and medical supplies in areas such as aleppo. six years of conflict and extreme violence in syria have led to the deaths of more than 400 000 people, with more than 13 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. our group has requested a new resolution that would reflect a more comprehensive picture of the situation and recent developments, and work toward the aim of a ceasefire and a potential peace deal. i support the need for a new resolution, as the european union through its role as a meditator should bring all major parties back to the negotiating table and lead the focus to the humanitarian aspect of the conflict.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the european parliament strongly condemned the failed military coup in turkey and recognised the legitimate responsibility of the turkish authorities to bring to justice all those responsible for this attempt and those involved. however, the repressive measures of the turkish authorities targeting opposition parties, including the arrest of opposition leaders and members of the grand national assembly of turkey, journalists and others, are grossly disproportionate and contrary to turkish domestic law, in breach of the commitments undertaken by a member state of the council of europe and the international covenant on civil and political rights. i voted in favour of the resolution, as it stresses that the reintroduction of the death penalty is flagrantly contrary to the values of the european union and would of course lead to the breakdown of the negotiations between the eu and turkey at any level. furthermore, turkey has not yet fulfilled 7 of the 72 benchmarks of the visa liberalisation roadmap, some of which are of particular importance. the commission should set clear benchmarks for the resumption of accession negotiations, taking into account the conditions set out in the copenhagen criteria and turkey's obligations as a member of the council of europe.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is in the interest of both parties - both turkey and the european union - that turkey's eu accession process continues, on the basis of the fulfilment of the agreed conditionalities. in line with the recent publication on 9 november 2016 by the european commission of the annual enlargement package of the european union, i share the message that it reconfirms, namely that the firm prospect of accession to the european union continues to have a transformative effect and to be an anchor of stability and security in the states of south-east europe, including with turkey. this perspective is all the more important in the context of the complex crises that the union has recently faced. the european commission's report on turkey is a comprehensive one, highlighting the particular complexity of the eu-turkey relationship. with regard to the latest developments in turkey, i believe that unity at eu level is essential.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding eu-turkey relations that condemns the military coup in turkey and recognises the legitimacy of the turkish authorities to prosecute the persons responsible and involved in this attempt. the resolution also condemns the disproportionate repressive measures undertaken by turkey and stresses that the political will to cooperate should come from both sides in order for progress to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this report because i have always supported diplomacy as a solution to any disagreement and i believe that aggression is to be avoided in the field of external relations. turkey is a key partner of the european union in energy, military, trade, cultural security, etc. however, a declaration to suspend accession negotiations, coming in a political and security context in which these negotiations are not topical for either side, i consider to be a topic that has no place and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-turkey relations. this resolution must be a strong signal to the european union, the commission and the council to take a firm stand immediately to bring turkey back to the rule of law. at the same time, taking into account the close bilateral relations between romania and turkey, i supported the inclusion in the text of the resolution of the point whereby eu member states can define their own relationship with turkey for the future. at this moment, there is no longer a functioning democracy in turkey, and the european union should not legitimise this situation by making concessions to the regime. democratic values and freedom of expression are mandatory preconditions for eu membership.
in writing. ‒ it is sad to witness how mr erdoğan’s attempts to handicap the democratic process in turkey continue to intensify and there are ever fewer pillars of democracy left unscathed. he started with freedom of speech a while ago, with mass imprisonment of journalists and his latest destruction is that of non-discrimination and human rights by labelling the opposition hdp party leaders as terrorists and lodging a criminal complaint against the chp party. particularly since the 2016 coup attempt, prospects for restoration of democratic structures in turkey seem to be gravely dim; erdoğan intends on using all the tools of power at his disposal to wipe out the system of checks and balances. despite all the progress that was once made by turkey which could be largely attributed to the positive effects of the enlargement process, at the moment, it is difficult to see how it is possible to continue enlargement negotiations with such an autocratically-ruled country.
in writing. ‒ the situation in turkey has become very complex following the failed military coup attempt at the end of july this year. the measures taken by the turkish government to punish those involved go beyond the limits of respect for fundamental rights which are at the heart of the values of the european union. at the same time, turkey is an important partner of the eu in the middle east region, especially in the context of responding to the refugee crisis and combating terrorism generated by the civil conflicts in syria and iraq. as turkey is a candidate country for eu membership, the member states and the european institutions must look very carefully at the measures taken by the ankara regime. the disproportionate measures taken by the authorities are not likely to normalise the situation at country level and may decisively degrade the quality of democracy in turkey. we must give priority to the fundamental rights of turkish citizens, regardless of their political orientation or ethnic origin, and support civil society in this country to contribute to the consolidation of democracy. but we cannot accept the democratic lapses of the ankara regime if we are to consider turkey's possible accession to the eu. i support the adoption of this extremely important resolution.
in writing. ‒ violence against women and gender-based violence is a violation of fundamental rights and an extreme form of discrimination, both a cause and a consequence of gender inequality. i believe that the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention will benefit everyone. first, a mandate for better data collection at eu level (there is currently not enough data to show the scale and nature of violence against women), thus requiring member states to collect and report accurate and comparable data to eurostat. a better understanding of the phenomenon will help prevent and address it.
in writing. ‒ violence against women has a huge impact on victims and also imposes a significant cost on society. in the framework of the international day of combating violence against women, the commission and member states should take steps towards its ratification, and the procedure for eu accession should accelerate. through this convention, states will be obliged to change their laws to zero tolerance towards violence against women, and preventing and combating violence becomes legally binding. finally, violence against women will not be considered as a private matter, but states will be obliged to prevent violence, protect victims and punish the perpetrators. considering the fact that the convention does not have a jurisdictional guaranteeing body, but only a conventional one, it is not guaranteed by a court but by a committee, and i support the call for an eu directive.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention that aims to protect women against all forms of violence and discrimination, and will promote substantive equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it strongly condemns all forms of violence against women, a fight i also fought during the previous mandate. i am deeply disappointed to see that violence against women still exists in many states and takes many forms, such as physical, emotional abuse, threats, sexual abuse or the use of children or pets for the purpose of manipulation. another important point of the report is the recognition of the essential work carried out by the various civil society organisations to prevent and combat violence against women and to protect or assist victims of this type of violence. it is important to emphasise that in this process of ending violence against women, assistance for the physical and psychological recovery of victims is complementary to all prevention and combat strategies.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the european union. unfortunately, violence against women continues to be a widespread phenomenon in the member states, affecting one third of all women in europe. at the same time, studies show that there are also acts of domestic violence committed against men. this unacceptable situation requires a combination of actions related to infrastructure, the judiciary, law enforcement, cultural, social, educational and health systems at european level. the use of violence in human relations is a reprehensible practice and belongs to an outdated historical stage. as members of the european parliament, we have a duty to combat by all available means the use of violence, especially within the family, where the negative effects are multiplied on all its members and, in particular, on children. given that all member states have signed the council of europe istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and 14 have already ratified the convention, it is recommended that the eu accede to this much-needed convention and implement its provisions. i support the adoption of this resolution more than necessary.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the ombudsman's ongoing dialogue and close relations with a range of eu institutions, including the european parliament, as well as other agencies, with a view to ensuring administrative cooperation and cohesion. i believe that eu agencies need to adhere to the same high standards of transparency, accountability and ethics as all other institutions. in this respect, i consider the work of the european ombudsman in several agencies across the eu to be extremely important, precisely in order to meet these standards. i believe that the work of ms emily oreilly was aimed at improving the quality of the services provided to citizens by european administrations, which is why i was in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman assists individuals, businesses and associations facing maladministration in a union institution. in 2015, the european ombudsman's office helped 17 033 european citizens, of which 13 966 cases (81.99%) were resolved by providing advice through the interactive guide on the european ombudsman's website. it serves the public interest by helping the eu institutions to improve the quality of the services they provide. in addition to investigating complaints, the ombudsman may also initiate inquiries on his own initiative. i voted for further transparency of the european institutions and bodies. the identification of weak administrations is a european priority.
in writing. ‒ many european citizens are concerned about european policies and their implementation and find it important that they petition when they are concerned. i therefore support the rapporteur's position that more sustained and wider efforts are needed to protect the trust of european citizens, especially in the light of regulation 1049/2001 on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, which provides for the principle of 'the widest possible access' and stresses that transparency and full access to documents held by the eu institutions must be the norm to ensure that citizens can fully exercise their democratic rights.
in writing. ‒ i fully endorse the great work of european ombudsman emily o’reilly for 2015. of special mention for the year in question was her work on transparency (ttip negotiations, the ecb, eu decision—making, whistle—blowing rules, lobbying transparency, eu agencies); revolving doors and conflict of interests. the ombudsman also did a great job in investigating respect for fundamental rights, in particular on the role of frontex in forced returns; as well as when member states spend money on projects financed by eu funds, for example on projects for disabled people (community—based care as opposed to institutionalisation). i also support the specific mention about former commission president barroso’s appointment as adviser and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman was established by the maastricht treaty in 1995 and investigates complaints about maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. i have voted for the 2015 annual report regarding the european ombudsman, which states the office helped 17 033 european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it encourages the european commission, as well as the member states, to empower the european ombudsman with the power to issue a declaration of non-compliance with regulation 1049/2001 on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, provided that these documents do not fall within the scope of article 9 (1) of this regulation. the report also takes note of the european central bank's status, both as a monetary authority and as an advisory member of the troika and the quadripartite. i welcome the fact that the report calls on the european ombudsman to protect the interests of good administration of one of the most important financial authorities and that it underlines the right of citizens to have a say in the eu policy-making process.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints about maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. its role is to help make eu institutions friendlier and more open to citizens. the ombudsman investigates areas such as respect for fundamental rights, transparency, conflicts of interests, and so on. this report reviews the work of the european ombudsman for the year 2015 and notes the main areas of work. i support this report and would like to praise the good work of the ombudsman.
mr president, the commission tells us that the new vat collection system has reduced losses by over eur 40 billion. it's about the uncollected taxes. i want to make a rational, absolutely necessary support for the european institutions and for each member state. .. of value added tax in all member states ... and, in particular, in the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union, that is, of our money, it must be defined as a criminal offence. i know that many member states are opposed to defining vat fraud as a criminal offence. there must be a crime. most of the money is lost precisely because of the vat carousel on european funds. if we let this money go back into the pockets of cross-border thieves, who steal across borders, we're not going to do anything, we're not going to save anything and we're not going to fight fraud at all. so once again, vat fraud has to be a crime in all member states in the new directive.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of people and goods within the eu also entails transfrontier illegalities committed by european citizens. vat fraud alone is estimated to cost eur 60 billion annually. cross-border transactions entail high administrative costs, which are difficult for smes to bear. to avoid this, simplified rules are required through cross-border cooperation between authorities, which reduces the administrative burden by using a common digital reporting base. in view of the rapid evolution of electronic commerce, it is necessary to identify measures aimed at increasing cooperation between member states in the field of digital transactions in order to implement an integrated and comprehensive strategy to combat electronic fraud. to meet the new challenges, tax authorities are forced to adopt new technologies so that the monitoring of the flow of transactions takes place in real time. the linking of all payment terminals to an online system is a safe and effective way of combating vat fraud. i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that late submission of reports is another obstacle in the fight against fraud and that national tax authorities should give priority to facilitating the exchange of information with judicial authorities as well as with europol and olaf.
in writing. ‒ the current vat system of the european union, established in 1993, was conceived as a transitional regulation, which generates an important and increasingly valuable source of revenue in the eu. it represents about 7% of the eu's gross domestic product and is also a source of the european union's own revenue. the commission estimates that the total vat losses due to fraud amount to approximately eur 170 billion per year. a major obstacle to the implementation of vat reform has been the unanimity to be achieved among member states. i voted to initiate a reform that would give member states more freedom and create a definitive model for the vat system. in this way, the financial and bureaucratic burden on businesses would be considerably reduced and fraud would be gradually eliminated.
in writing. ‒ vat is a major and growing source of tax revenue in the eu, but however, the current vat system is too vulnerable to fraud, too burdensome and complex for businesses that wish to expand beyond the member state in which they are established. therefore, i support the outcome of the report, which puts forward proposals to improve the vat collection system, eradicate vat fraud and reduce red tape, supporting the need to reform the vat system with the aim of achieving a single eu vat area that helps promoting employment, growth, investment and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ in 1993 the european union vat system was put in place as a provisional arrangement stating that the taxation of trade between member states should be based on the principle of taxing goods and services in the country of origin. i have voted for this report that proposes to modernise vat for cross-border e—commerce in order to try and eliminate competitive disadvantages of eu companies against third-country suppliers that can supply vat—free goods to consumers in the eu under the exemption for imports of small consignments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider the fight against tax fraud to be one of the main challenges we have to face in the context of this single market which we all want to be as fairly regulated as possible. the report adopted today calls on the european commission to create a definitive vat system by extending the reverse taxation procedure to all commercial transactions across europe. the current procedure for pre-taxation and refund of excess amounts would no longer be necessary, thus reducing the risk of fraud. at the same time, by facilitating and improving the exchange of information between member states and competent judicial authorities (olaf, europol), fraud in transactions between countries with different vat regimes can be prevented and combated more effectively.
in writing. ‒ the need for a definitive, easy and efficient vat system that helps to combat vat fraud is evident, given that vat is an important source of revenue, valuable for member states, but vulnerable. the business world, developing some of the most unexpected tax avoidance strategies and models, and the digital age have facilitated this world's demise, negatively affecting citizens and responsible actors in european markets. in this context, member states are called upon to develop integrated strategies to combat fraud, with simplified collection measures, using easy and transparent reporting tools, effective tax models, appropriate databases and facilitating the flow of information between tax and customs authorities on imports, harmonised at european level. this approach at the level of each member state should be monitored in terms of the performance achieved by the national tax authorities and coordinated at european level. i voted in favour of facilitating the rationale and operationalisation of integrated strategies to combat fraud by establishing a portal accessible to the general public and to stakeholders with viable, detailed information on all vat-related issues, agreeing that member states should set up such public information systems as are necessary to inform final consumers.
in writing. ‒ value added tax (vat) is an important source of revenue for the member states of the european union, representing no less than 7% of eu gdp in 2014. unfortunately, separate national regulations lead to annual losses of eur 170 million, of which eur 50 million is due to cross-border fraud. the eu has set itself the medium- and long-term objective of harmonising vat rates at union level, with a view to making collection procedures more efficient and to eradicating fraud and combating corruption in this area. this will be beneficial for simplifying the operations of smes at european level and for generating sustainable economic growth. however, despite numerous initiatives to remedy the situation, reform proposals are consistently blocked by some member states. the document sets out concrete proposals from the commission to tax goods and services in the country of destination, introduce a one-stop shop for online sales, apply the reverse taxation procedure widely, develop the eurofisc network and improve cooperation between the member states' specialised structures. i believe that this is a necessary regulation and i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is a form of international organised crime estimated to be worth around eur 20 billion annually and has grown worldwide in recent years to become one of the largest and most profitable forms of cross-border organised crime. it also poses a growing threat to global security, political stability, economic development, local livelihoods and the rule of law and therefore requires a strategic, coordinated approach at eu level with the participation of all actors involved. in this regard, i welcome the commission's action plan against wildlife trafficking, highlighting the need for coordinated action to address the causes of wildlife trafficking in order to implement and ensure effective enforcement of existing rules and to strengthen global cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. i voted in favour of this report, taking into account the need to act, given that the european union is both a transit and destination point for trade and a source of illegal wildlife products protected under eu law.
in writing. ‒ the wildlife trade has become a multi-billion euro criminal activity dominated by organised crime groups. the european union is both an important player in the fight against wildlife crime and a transit point. we voted for the action plan until 2020, which aims to combat wildlife trafficking globally through a set of priorities: prevention, enforcement, cooperation. it is the common responsibility of eu member states to respond to this challenge and halt the rapid decline of some of the world's most prized species. in this way, we will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and strengthen the eu's security framework.
in writing. ‒ the european union is and must remain an important actor in the fight against wildlife crime. the main reason is that europe is an important destination for illegal wildlife products, but also a transit and often origin point for wildlife trafficking, especially between africa, asia and latin america, but also within the eu. i therefore support the european union action plan which is part of the eu's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development. it calls for urgent action to end poaching and trafficking of protected species and to combat the demand and supply of illegal wildlife products. i also support the organisation of information and awareness raising campaigns for citizens on the prevention of wildlife trafficking, addressing its root causes in order to reduce the global demand and supply of illegal wildlife products using the tools available.
in writing. ‒ the need to protect our planet’s flora and fauna from the predation of transnational organised crime has become a major priority for the international community in recent years. i believe the eu has the duty to continue to lead the fight against wildlife trafficking, to take strong action to prevent these illegal activities and to better cooperate with third countries to face the dramatic surge we have seen in the last years. wildlife trafficking has devastating consequences for the sustainable development and for the well-being of the local populations which are affected by it. wildlife trafficking and poaching damage ecosystems and present great risks for rural communities, which are often threatened by heavily armed criminal groups, often acting on a transnational level. moreover, its negative consequences for ecotourism harm local economies.
in writing. ‒ wildlife crimes poses a real threat to biodiversity and is currently being regarded as a security issue in some source countries. i have voted in favour of this report that will put in place an eu action plan aiming to prevent wildlife trafficking and address its root causes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the problem of wildlife trafficking is a very big one worldwide, with major implications and ramifications in all types of illegal activities. the cartels that ensure the flow of wildlife to markets around the world are the same or closely linked to those that traffic in people, drugs, firearms and ultimately support, through direct or indirect action, instability in certain states or regions and even terrorist organisations. i welcome the fact that all eu member states have committed themselves to fighting wildlife trafficking, as i believe that it must follow the same path and determination already shown in the fight against iuu fishing. the eu action plan on wildlife trafficking proposed by the commission shows the scale of the problems we are facing at the global and european level. they also support this report because it sets out objectives and actions that will complement existing strategies in specific sectors.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is one of the main causes of the increase in the number of endangered species worldwide. the european union is the main market for this type of harmful trade, with revenues of billions of euros, including in hunting trophies. in this context, it is necessary to regulate this practice, which is considered a threat to biodiversity at european level and to international peace and security, with the involvement of organised crime groups, appropriately. the eu action plan for 2016-2020 has been drawn up in response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which calls for urgent action to eradicate poaching and trafficking of protected species. this document will strengthen the eu's role in combating wildlife trafficking globally by preventing the root causes of the practice and by implementing existing rules against organised wildlife crime. a strong emphasis is also placed on strengthening the global partnership between countries of origin, consuming countries and transit countries. the eu and its member states are responsible for preserving biodiversity for future generations. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report which welcomes the commission's action plan against wildlife trafficking. wildlife trafficking is a form of international organised crime estimated to be worth around eur 20 billion annually and has increased worldwide in recent years to become one of the largest and most profitable forms of cross-border organised crime. this type of trafficking is closely linked to other forms of serious and organised crime which it finances. trafficking in wildlife has a major negative impact on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the main engine of the european economy, accounting for 99,8% of all non-financial enterprises in 2014. in recent years, job-creating smes have been found mainly in the services sector, playing a key role in the smooth functioning of mobility in europe. unfortunately, they often face difficulties in accessing and maintaining their market, in particular due to the presence of monopolies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a regulatory and administrative framework is needed to encourage investment and access to finance, while ensuring sustainable growth and quality jobs in small transport enterprises.
in writing. ‒ small transport enterprises bring together all those enterprises which provide passenger or freight transport services. all of these play a decisive role in the transport of passengers and goods, facilitating mobility. the importance of information and communication in transport has naturally made this sector a fertile ground for the digital economy, and the first challenge for these businesses is the digital transition. whether they're active participants or not, they have to adapt to avoid decline. at present, due to differences in the application of the legislation and its non-compliant use, economic and social market distortions remain widespread, while small enterprises are severely affected by the absence of a single european transport area. i voted to accelerate efforts to complete the single european transport area, thus putting an end to irregularities stemming from legislative gaps.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises play a decisive role in passenger and freight transport, facilitating mobility, traditionally structured by the 'big players'. they have the advantage of better knowledge of local markets, are closer to customers and bring important benefits in densely populated areas, but also in remote areas where the construction of rail infrastructure or the organisation of public transport would be too costly and where the private car is often the only means of transport possible for certain categories of population. i therefore support supporting these enterprises - family businesses, smes, micro-enterprises, craft enterprises or start-ups - because they operate in a well-defined market segment and are often dependent on large enterprises, without necessarily aiming for exponential growth. in addition, they make an important contribution to ensuring the mobility of citizens at european level.
in writing. – the report criticises anti-competitive practices which can lead to serious distortions such as social dumping. it notes the importance of flexible working models as negotiated with social partners, while also emphasising the opportunities in increased digitalisation in monitoring driving time and rest time. it warns of the dangers of a concentration of data by a limited number of platforms. it also notes the importance of decarbonisation in the sector, and the role of public transport in rural and remote areas which should be maintained. the transport sector faces many challenges and possibilities in the emergence of the collaborative economy. a coherent european approach is needed to support the emergence of new business models and smes and to provide services with and alongside existing operators on the market.
in writing. ‒ as an alternative rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism, i voted for this report because of the concrete proposals to improve the situation of small transport enterprises by creating new opportunities. smes in the transport sector face many challenges to survive in the market. the european and national institutions must support them. in the report, i proposed that member states and the commission take appropriate measures to combat anti-competitive practices by large integrated groups of large carriers. i also requested the publication of a roadmap on the release of publicly funded transport data to ensure transparency. in addition, the report calls for the establishment of cooperation structures between small transport companies, research institutes and local and regional authorities to organise urban and inter-urban mobility.
in writing. ‒ small transport undertakings in europe are strongly represented in road, river and marine transport, and less so in railways and aviation. i have voted for this report that will identify new opportunities for small transport businesses and how they can better take advantage of the digitalisation transition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that smes are the main drivers of job creation in the services sector, and also the main engine of the european economy. in this context, the report adopted today calls on member states to put an end to the phenomenon of over-regulation, which increases inequalities. at the same time, i welcome the idea of inviting member states and the european commission to consider pooling small transport companies, which would facilitate the development of partnerships between them.
in writing. ‒ the european economy is driven by smes, which create jobs and, in growing numbers, generate innovation and creativity, and an effective expression of entrepreneurship, which promote social inclusion and respect the principles of equal opportunities and gender equality. smes are favourable contexts for the implementation of effective management methods and tools. it is known that the service sector is the one that attracts smes, especially due to the low costs of market entry, generating socio-economic development. i certainly agree that smes in the transport sector contribute to making mobility in the eu more efficient, but they need to create contexts that generate new opportunities for sustainable development, precisely because of the complexity of the sector (e.g. inconsistent definition of service providers, use and marketing of transport services, safety and security, etc.) and its governance system. in particular, the digital economy has created challenges in all aspects for all businesses, regardless of their size and field of activity. sharing economy models can be successfully applied in the development of smes in the transport sector if member states respect european rules on social and working conditions (wages and social security systems) and eu fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the dramatic growth of the digital economy and the emergence of platforms will radically change the transport market, especially for small businesses. they come with new services and a degree of flexibility that is hard to match for traditional players. they also raise the issue of maintaining a balance between innovation and the protection of social rights. the european parliament proposes a realistic approach, anchored in the certainty that technology is advancing and things are changing. we need to mobilize to act before we are overwhelmed by the complexity of the new conditions. we need a modern transport system as well as new services to meet the growing demands of our citizens. this report is a good opportunity to start the discussion on how the european institutions can create a legislative framework that propels europe to the forefront of innovation and quality in transport services.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on new opportunities for small businesses in the transport sector, including sharing economy models. smes in the transport sector play a key role in the smooth functioning of mobility in europe, but often face difficulties in accessing and maintaining their market position, in particular due to the presence of monopolies in this market. by transport undertakings the rapporteur means those undertakings which provide services for the transport of passengers or goods.
in writing. ‒ the progress made by belarus over the past two years has contributed to the improvement of eu-belarus relations. in particular, this concerns belarus' proactive participation in the eastern partnership and the mid-term consultations on modernisation issues, the resumption of the eu-belarus human rights dialogue, as well as the start of negotiations on visa facilitation and readmission agreements and on a mobility partnership. unfortunately, however, the well-being of belarusian citizens is endangered by certain policies that do not serve society as a whole, but only certain groups. in this context, we are talking about the violation of freedom of expression and the media, the limitation of civil and political rights, but also the stagnation of the economy for over 20 years, with important sectors still in state ownership. it should also be noted that belarus is the only european country that still applies the death penalty, an inhuman and degrading treatment. i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope of a better treatment of citizens, of a state that respects democratic values, but also of a dynamic civil society that can contribute to the social and economic well-being of this country.
in writing. ‒ the continuing use of the death penalty in belarus, the only country on the european continent that still applies the death penalty, is to be deplored. i strongly support the call on the authorities of belarus to commute the remaining death sentences and establish without delay a formal moratorium on executions as a first step towards abolition of the death penalty. the introduction of the moratorium would be a decisive step in bringing belarus closer to the pan-european legal standards. it is important to increase cooperation in the areas of legal and labour migration; asylum and the protection of refugees; prevention and combating of irregular migration and on maximising the development impact of migration and mobility. however, we cannot forget that the situation in belarus is not improving from a political rights and social freedoms point of view. the repression of democratic opposition and of independent civil society activity has to be condemned by all means.
in writing. ‒ we know that russian foreign minister sergei lavrov was in minsk. we also know that alexander lukashenko will be received in the kremlin by putin. that is why we cannot but look with caution at the recent positive developments in belarus. the september elections were more democratic than usual: they were more transparent, and opposition members were able to register more easily and had access to the media. however, the parliament does not represent the will of the citizens of belarus, as after 20 years only two opposition politicians have won a seat in the parliament. on the other hand, belarus is currently building its first nuclear power plant at ostrovetsk, on the eu border. we demand that this plant strictly comply with international nuclear safety and environmental requirements. the government of belarus must rehabilitate released political prisoners and fully restore their civil and political rights, and end politically motivated harassment of independent media. only under these conditions can the eu further develop relations with belarus, which has also proved to be extremely important in the peace process in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that stresses the shortcomings observed during the 2015 presidential elections and the 2016 parliamentary elections, calling on belarusian authorities to begin work on a comprehensive electoral reform as part of a broader democratisation process.
in writing. ‒ the situation in belarus has evolved significantly in recent years, although it is still far from meeting the union's standards on democracy and the rule of law. following the release of the last political prisoners by the minsk regime at the end of 2015, the eu lifted sanctions against the belarusian state and began a critical dialogue with it. the legislative elections of 11 september 2016 marked the election of two independent opposition deputies to the lower house of the parliament of belarus. it is a step forward, although the democratic opposition forces in belarus have condemned these elections as unfair. from an economic point of view, the minsk regime needs financial resources to overcome the current difficult situation. the eu can provide these resources, but only in exchange for the continued democratisation of the belarusian state structures and the abandonment of dictatorial and authoritarian methods of governance. the union's main objective must be to promote its values in belarus, an important state in its eastern neighbourhood, and a better economic situation for the belarusian citizens. i support the adoption of this resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have a budget for the european union for next year. this in itself is good news. herewith we are proving to the council, commission and parliament that we are ready to act and to deliver a budget to the european union in these difficult circumstances and, not only that we have a budget, but that we have a good budget for the union for next year. it responds to what we established at the beginning of the 7-year multiannual financial framework as our main priorities: growth and jobs. in order to allow for more growth in the european economy to generate more jobs, we are investing the money which we have in innovation and infrastructure. it is those areas which will make the european economy stronger. we are also giving support to students, with eur 50 million more for the erasmus programme, and to smes and young entrepreneurs through investing eur 50 million more into the cosme programme. as the commissioner also said, we have not forgotten about farmers, and i want to see that, in addition to these additional priorities that we have had, we also respond to current and new challenges, making europe safer again. we are strengthening europol and eurojust and we want to stop illegal migration to europe and manage the refugee crisis which we have been tackling. the negotiations were difficult. we managed to agree, but to my colleagues in council i also want to say that, if europe is expected to deliver in the coming years, especially in 2018, member states have to understand that, if there are new priorities and new demands vis—à-vis the budget of the union, then of course fresh new resources are clearly also needed. what we are delivering this year is a good budget under difficult circumstances but, if we are expected to deliver more next year, then of course more resources are needed. to conclude, i would like to thank the main rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have worked in a good spirit. i would like to thank the commissioner for the wisdom and the political sensitivity which she put into the negotiations – and sometimes passion too – to make this budget possible. i would also like to thank the council for having been a good partner to us.
blue-card question. – mr arnott, as you mentioned, the united kingdom is going to leave the european union. why do you care so much about the european union budget? leave us, the countries that remain, to take care of the european union budget.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, mr president. mr president, you have said that the taxes are too high and that brussels is to blame. i would like to ask you: do you know who is responsible for taxation, for setting taxes and duties in the member states?
first of all, i want to congratulate the rapporteurs on the work they have done to get this budget, which is going to change, at least in part, the logic of austerity. we need to work together to solve many of the problems of european citizens and to finance our actions at the level of the ambitions and expectations of those we represent. for example, supporting young people and fighting unemployment. after long negotiations and many appeals from us as meps, we have now secured 500 million euros for the youth employment initiative. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. i would like to see this type of subject, and i am referring here specifically to support for young people, no longer become a matter of controversy between us and between institutions. we need concrete solutions that can be financed at european level, commensurate with the challenges we face. the most important thing in budget construction is to remember its purpose. we in the european social democratic family, and especially in the social democratic party, think that the most important thing is to invest in people, and that is visible in our government program as well. last but not least, i am pleased that this budget confirms the approval of two initiatives that i have proposed, worth a total of eur 3 million, which will support the digital industry and sector at european level and, in particular, in my country, romania. we can do a lot together, but for that we have to get out of the rhetoric of technocrats, and we have to link the budget to the real needs of the citizens. and in that regard, i want to thank you for approving this budget.
thank you, mr president. we all know that the budget is always difficult to negotiate and it's hard to accept when your proposal is not accepted. but let us not forget that resources are limited and demands are high. i would like to personally thank you, madam vice-president, the commissioner, who have negotiated very well, and of course the rapporteurs, for the final form of the budget, which i will personally support. sure, i'm a supporter of smes, i'm a supporter of youth. obviously i would have wanted to be here more. but i understood that it was not possible. i think it is now the role of the council and the member states to see how this money that we have allocated to very important chapters is spent. and i also think it's important to see the collection, a colleague of mine said. i would also like to add that we need to think much more about how we can stimulate investment in poor areas, increase social cohesion, invest in tourism, because for europe this is indeed an opportunity for more jobs for young people, and of course we must not forget innovation and education. thank you personally and i wish you much success in the new job you have and don't forget, maybe you can help us from there.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the european parliament managed to restore the commission’s initial proposal on all lines cut by the council. furthermore, the european parliament delegation managed to ensure a big amount of fresh reinforcements for the key programmes, such as growth and jobs and the youth employment initiative. i also find fundamental the allocation of additional eur 500 million to tackle the crisis in the agricultural sector, to support dairy and livestock farmers, and the additional 5.91 billion to tackle the migration and refugee crisis and reinforce security. finally, i support the decision taken in order to accommodate a big part of these reinforcements to mobilise the special instruments available under the current multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 regulation.
in writing. the three institutions, the european parliament, the council and the european commission, have agreed on the budget for 2017 of eur 157,8 billion for commitments of expenditure and eur 134,5 billion for actual payments. additional resources have been earmarked for job creation for young people, financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for student exchanges. however, i believe that there are still programmes approved at european level that are still underfunded. for example, funding for immigrants is insufficient both in europe to integrate immigrants and to reduce the flow of immigrants through actions outside europe. it is important that the european union does not adopt the practice of some member states of approving programmes without securing the public budgetary funding required for the implementation of these programmes.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i am very sorry you are leaving, thank you very much for what you have done so far and i hope that by the end of the year you will have done something more. thank you for this proposal for rectification, not for revision, it is very important. mr president-in-office, i thank you for your efforts, the first step taken so far, but i think you have to make further efforts to reach an even better solution. the member states committed themselves three years ago to spend a figure of over 900 billion. this money must be spent in full. for that we need flexibility and we need a few things proposed by the commissioner, but which are not yet accepted by the council. we need the money that is disbursed to stay in the budget because it is employed by the member states, so it has to stay in the budget and be used for urgent things. we need flexibility, again, it's extremely important. we need the money to stay in the budget so that we don't end up again in the situation we were in two years ago, having no money to pay for european policies. it is unacceptable, two weeks ago i approved the budget for the member states to receive over 8 billion euros this year and at the same time negotiate for 50 million. so, commissioner, i ask you to continue to make every effort to ensure that your proposed correction is accepted by the council in its entirety. thank you very much.
the revision of the multiannual financial framework must be in line with the expectations of european citizens who really want a europe that is more committed to improving the quality and conditions of life throughout the territory of the member states. this means maintaining the funds allocated to cohesion policy, providing additional funding to youth policies and increasing the budget for crisis contingencies. and to answer a british eurosceptic mep who spoke earlier, i am including the fall in the pound sterling, which has had a serious impact on british citizens and the european union. to this end, we need to integrate into the mechanisms of the multiannual financial framework a number of general principles, such as support for underdeveloped areas, financing of policies for disadvantaged groups and categories, and tailor-made budgeting of european actions and programmes in areas such as education or health. the multiannual financial framework must put the citizen at the forefront. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – the european parliament called for an agreement that would provide data protection safeguards for personal information transferred between the eu and us. on 3 december 2010 the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on such an agreement that would provide the right to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data when this information is transferred to the competent authorities. on 8 september 2015 eu and us officials concluded the agreement, guaranteeing a high level of protection for all personal data that will be transferred between the law enforcement authorities of the two parts. the personal data will only be exchanged and processed with the scope of investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences and acts of terrorism in the framework of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. any citizen from the two parts that considers that his data has been misused will have access to several accessible and affordable dispute resolution mechanisms. this is the first time that personal data information is exchanged in a secured way with strong obligations on companies handling the data, clear safeguards and transparency obligations on us government access and an effective protection of individual rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for your contributions to this rich debate, which of course highlights the importance of eu solidarity and of cohesion policy support, in particular in the dramatic situation that people are experiencing in central italy. as i said, and i repeat today, the commission adopted a proposal to amend the common provision regulation (cpr) to allow for 100% co-financing – so it’s not co-financing any more – regarding the construction costs in areas hit by natural disasters. this is not only available for earthquakes, it is not only available for italy – because i had this question by mr ropé: ‘why only earthquakes?’ – it is everything related to natural disasters, and we did this not only for earthquakes but this year we just paid for madeira for fires, for cyprus for drought and fires, for greece as well, so now with this amendment for the cpr all the reconstruction will be done by eu money without any need for co-financing. this is news today. on this report by mr cicu, which is very important, on the solidarity fund, this own-initiative report presented by the committee on regional affairs (regi) and drafted by mr cicu emphasised also the main challenges we are facing. as i said two years ago, the reform of the eu solidarity fund allowed support to be made clearer and swifter, but also fairer, thanks to the advance payments. so, as i said, eur 30 million will go next week to italy as advance payments, and i would like to remind you that we have received the application from italy just at the end of october, so of course we will assess the final sum, but we are coming as quickly as possible with the advance payment. the ongoing evaluation of this reform we adopted two years ago will provide further light on these improvements and allow for a possible further revision in the context of the future mff post-2020. for the commission, flexibility and responsiveness of the solidarity fund is only one objective. another one is respect for sound financial management, as well as assurances on the legality and the regularity of spending – as parliament, especially the committee on budgetary control regularly and rightly recalls. the commission has to strike this balance between these two objectives which can obviously have an impact on the speediness of closure procedures. on the situation in italy after the earthquake, in any case, as i say the commission is supportive, is currently working with the italian authorities to ensure that the eu solidarity fund is mobilised as soon as possible following the payment of the advance. unfortunately italy has been the leading beneficiary of the solidarity fund since 2002 with an amount of eur 1.3 billion, so we are very much aware that there is a big problem, and it is the frequency of the earthquakes which is really very dramatic. don’t forget that i am also coming from a country who lost many people in amatrice, and i will be there in several days to speak with the italian authorities in rome, i will visit amatrice and also norcia, so we will see on the ground whatever it takes to help – and to help the citizens first of all, this is our first objective. we also stand ready to work with italy on possible revisions of the programmes of the european structural and investment funds. we have offered this opportunity and we are very open to rapidly change some operational programmes if needed and if the italian authorities require. we expect these solidarity instruments to be supplemented by support from the european solidarity corps once it is established as announced by president juncker. finally, we are exploring possibilities to help member states and regions better handle the period between the disaster and the payment of eu support. in this context, one possibility could be setting up a bridging loan facility with the european investment bank which would help bridge this gap. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the commission’s full commitment to strengthen the various solidarity instruments of the european union. i saw that there have been recurrent inquiries about the stability and growth pact. i am not responsible for this, it is my colleague mr moscovici, but as you know short-term emergency and reconstruction costs related to major natural catastrophes are excluded from the member states’ final effort. regarding investments related to seismic risks, the commission’s assessment will require ex-ante and ex-post data to be provided by the italian authorities.
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf), established in 2002, is a non-reimbursable financial instrument needed for emergency and rescue actions by authorities following natural disasters that have a direct impact on people's lives, the natural environment or the economy in a specific affected region. over time, the eusf has undergone several revisions, with a view to its development, at least in terms of process, procedures, time period, content, notions with which it operates, indicators for assessing the effectiveness of aid, scope/sphere. this is because the evidence shows that, as a result of climate change, natural disasters within the eu are continuously increasing in number, severity and intensity. the impact and importance of the eusf in promoting sustainable solutions is enhanced if, in this context, other european structural and investment funds (esi funds) are also used appropriately and synergistically by national, local and regional authorities, in particular for the purpose of preventing natural disasters, underpinned by effective specific strategies. it is clear that the authorities must disseminate to the general public, by modern means, information on both the aid that may be granted through the eusf (including monitoring its progress) and the results of the aid already granted from 2002 to the present.
the next item is the report by pascal durand, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on commissioners’ declarations of interests – guidelines (2016/2080(ini)) (a8—0315/2016).
as a member of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, i welcome the initiative of our colleagues to change the legal framework on the incompatibility regime for commissioners and the declaration of interests. the changes introduced by this new document are a step forward in combating abuse, in promoting transparency and - why not? - in increasing trust in the european institutions. i take this opportunity to mention an example that has been widely reported in the press and in the debates that have taken place on this subject in the european parliament. i am referring to the former commissioner for agriculture, dacian ciolos, who now has two incomes. he receives a daily allowance as a former commissioner of around €8,300 per month, while he collects the salary of the prime minister from romanian taxpayers' money. i don't know if we can refer to this as an incompatibility, but it certainly took advantage of the lack of clear legal provisions. i am saddened that such possible abuses can be committed by an experienced politician, but i am glad that we have succeeded in this final draft on the incompatibilities regime and the declaration of interests to combat such immoral solutions by introducing precise measures on such situations. thank you. thank you.
thank you, madam president. the main concern of farmers today is to get their products to a price that is acceptable and that will enable them to survive in the market. the big grocery chains, especially in western europe, have a close partnership with local farmers, which is a very good thing. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiary of the aid. this implies a limited number of economic operators engaged in economic development activity, as well as close relationships between producers, processors and consumers. the european commission has, however, shown an excessive zeal in this case, initiating preliminary infringement proceedings, which i regard as being limited to the legality of the treaties. i would point out that the law adopted does not restrict the presence of european agri-food products on the shelves of traders in romania, so it is not an obstacle to intra-community trade, and this law must certainly be applied in romania. thank you. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the ex ante conditionalities imposed on the member states. these requirements are a tool used to enforce the policy of the european commission and another case of overstepping the powers conferred by the treaties. under the pretext of setting conditions for the effective implementation of the funds, the european commission actually obliges the states to implement certain structural reforms and strategies at national level. the need for them is determined unilaterally by the european commission, without being able to be discussed or modified according to specific national particularities. for example, romania was imposed 36 conditionalities to be met by the end of this year, including for areas that are the exclusive competence of member states, such as health and education. member states have noted the high complexity and the lack of clarity of those cross-compliance. if we add to this the danger of suspending funds, then national institutions will tend to adopt formal measures just to avoid sanctions. in the current context, when more and more voices are calling for simplicity and clarity in regulations, i believe it is absolutely necessary that these conditionalities be revised and that the allocation of funds is not affected by the stage of their implementation. thank you. thank you.
december 1 is the national day of romania and all romanians, marking a moment of great historical significance, 98 years since the great union at alba iulia. it is a moment that honors the sacrifices made by hundreds of thousands of romanians over the centuries for the realization of national unity. over 300,000 romanian soldiers died in world war i for this goal. of these, over 22,000 died and were buried outside the country's borders. because this day belongs to all romanians, wherever they may be, i decided to take a moment to recall the graves of the eight romanian soldiers killed in world war i here in belgium, in mons. and the most important place in my soul and in the romanian people is alba iulia, the place where modern romania was born. that is why i hope that in 2018, when the centenary of romania will be celebrated, alba iulia will benefit from more recognition from the romanian state and become a landmark for everything that the future of romania means. i invite all our european partners to join us in supporting this country project. happy birthday to romania, happy birthday to alba iulia, happy birthday to all the romanians!
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on combating racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance (2016/2989 ((rsp)).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, ask yourself if it's racist to protect your culture. my answer is no, but i ask you: don't you think we can promote our own cultures without harming other cultures, without excluding them?
i call on my colleagues to try to register at the allotted time, as we have a solemn meeting at 11.30 and we have an item on the agenda besides this item.
this was uncalled-for. really. that is my personal opinion. you have your own personal opinion, you have voiced it. i have my personal opinion and i am voicing it, and i go on and ask mr fountoulis to take the floor for one minute and 30 seconds.
mr president i consider it important to combat all forms of intolerance, all the more so since we are still faced with this phenomenon quite often in the union. for example, workers from eastern european member states who enjoy the right of free movement and work in another state are often faced with intolerance. or i could mention my country, where it's not just during elections that we are sent to asia as national minorities. there is a great responsibility not only for politics but also for the press. but we could also talk about the importance of education. look what the history books say. european citizens should be made aware that the rights of eu citizenship are shared by all. if we are talking about european solidarity, the first step is to accept each other as europeans and not to differentiate between europeans and europeans, between europeans and people.
if you ask me, personally i would prefer to allow everybody to speak, and the fact that you are more than others does not mean that the others do not have the right to speak. this is my judgment. maybe i’m wrong, we will certainly raise this with other colleagues because as far as i know there are no precise rules on who should get catch-the-eye. it is the prerogative of the president. some other presidents will probably have a different view but this is mine and i am trying to explain it, but thank you for your point of view. we do not want to transform this debate into another debate, but if you insist...
yes, but sometimes we are under time pressure. i announced that we have this special session which starts at 11.30, so due to that we have to sacrifice and try to find a balance, but thank you.
mr president, in the debate on the drc in march i expressed my hope that president kabila would not succumb to the temptation to remain in power at any cost, ignoring the limits set by the constitution, and i warned of the risk that the country would sink into violence. unfortunately, violence and repression of opposition demonstrations are a reality, and i believe that they should not simply be condemned, but that sanctions should be used, as mrs rivasi has mentioned. beyond this reaction, we must also think about the lessons to be learned from the crisis in the drc. we are currently working on a report on the limits of presidential terms of office in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. there are three points i would like to stress. first of all, i believe that europe should support strong institutions, not strong politicians in africa; secondly, a consensus among the political elites on the inviolability of the principle of term limits must be promoted. and, finally, better use of the political dialogue under the cotonou agreement before these crises arise.
in writing. elections in congo have been postponed to the benefit of the already twice elected president joseph kabila. the constitution limits the president to two terms; kabila has already tried to change the constitution to extend his term. these delays in the elections caused turmoil throughout the country. kabila appointed an opposition leader as prime minister, only this didn't have much of an impact in removing tensions. the postponed elections triggered demonstrations that were met with brutal repression. the un peacekeeping operation in the drc is preparing for a crisis. human rights groups criticize the deteriorating situation regarding freedom of expression and association. indeed, political instability is causing chaos in the country and exacerbating poverty and continuing insecurity. i call on president kabila to respect the drc constitution and to resign at the end of his term. the elections should take place on december 19, as originally planned. those unjustly detained during the demonstrations should be released, and the government should stop using force against protesters. peaceful and transparent elections will contribute to the progress and development of the drc.
mr president, 1 december is the national day in romania. it is the anniversary of 98 years since the great union day of all romanian provinces into a unitary romanian state. romania, as a responsible member of the european union, promotes peace, stability and cooperation. as well as this, we are looking forward to further integration within the european union states. please join me in wishing romania a happy birthday and sending congratulations to all romanians. (applause)
mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the political groups who understood the urgency of amending article 136 of the customs code, which applies from 1 may 2016. that is why i hope that today this amendment to the simplified procedure, this report, will be voted on. as the commission has also argued, under the current form of article 136, the relevant authorities in the member states have no legal basis to apply the provisions relating to the notification of the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft, the carriage and the presentation of goods to customs when unloaded or transported. for this reason, the absence of legal regulation, of a legal basis, could lead to insecurity, to non-taxation and non-application of fiscal measures, to the absence of sanitary controls and, obviously, to risks related to goods arriving in ports. thank you and i wish my country happy birthday too because i cannot be with the romanians, i am here in parliament. i thank you and hope that the report will be voted on.
in writing. following the entry into force of the provisions of the regulation establishing the union customs code, certain irregularities and shortcomings have been identified which prevent the correct application of this code. the initiative therefore aims to correct these errors in order to ensure equal treatment of goods. the main problem identified relates to the lack of a legal basis for the competent authorities in the member states to apply the provisions on the carriage and presentation of goods to customs when unloaded, notification of the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft, provisions on temporary storage. in the absence of a legal basis, the fulfilment of customs supervision tasks becomes difficult to achieve within optimal parameters. as a result, the authorities will be unable to correctly collect import duties and properly apply non-fiscal measures, as well as to identify risks related to goods arriving at their ports or airports. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to remedy these deficiencies in order to properly carry out customs supervision tasks.
in writing. ‒ this proposal changes one article of the union customs code, which has proved to be problematic in practice and concerns goods which have temporarily left the union territory by sea or air. in committee, the proposal was dealt with under simplified procedure (rule 50) and the com proposal was adopted without amendments. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the imco commission, i voted for this report because the union customs code sets clear rules and fair conditions for all operators in the field and clarifies the regulated procedures. the amendment of the customs code will ensure an increase in security regarding products entering the territory of romania and a correct taxation. this report is important as the relevant authorities in the member states currently have no legal basis under the current article 136 to apply provisions on lodging of entry summary declaration; notification of arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft; transport and presentation of goods to customs when unloaded or transhipped; waiting for authorisation before unloading or transhipping of goods; provisions on temporary storage. these provisions apply to the specific case of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union while travelling on a direct route between two points in that territory by sea or air, without any stop outside the union. the absence of a clear legal basis makes it difficult for the customs authorities to effectively carry out their customs supervision tasks.
in writing. ‒ the union customs code (ucc) is the new framework regulation on the rules and procedures for the customs throughout the eu. i voted for this report that will put in place provisions for the case of goods that have temporarily left the eu’s customs territory while moving by direct route by air or by sea, between two points of that territory without a stop outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which identifies the shortcomings of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 and proposes the necessary amendments to the regulations on the carriage of goods by sea or air. in accordance with article 136, at this stage the relevant authorities in the member states do not have a legal basis to apply the provisions on lodging the entry summary declaration, the carriage and presentation of goods to customs when unloaded or transhipped, or the provisions on temporary storage of goods. they should apply to the specific case of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the european union while travelling on a direct route between two points by sea or air, without any stop outside the european union. in the absence of a clear legal basis requiring the presentation of goods to the customs authorities of the country of transit, the effective performance of customs supervision tasks is hampered. i consider that the proposal to amend article 136, which clearly specifies this obligation, removes this shortcoming and provides once again the legal basis for control, as it was established in the old customs code.
in writing. ‒ in order to facilitate trade flows, the amendment of the union customs code with regard to goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air is salutary as it brings the necessary clarifications to the proper and adequate application of fiscal and non-fiscal measures (such as veterinary and phytosanitary controls), thus addressing the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the customs code, applicable from 1 may 2016. for example, logically, temporary leaving the customs territory of the union does not change the status of goods, that of union goods, as confirmed by the amendments made to the union customs code. in the light of the findings of the member states with regard to the use of the union customs code, the need for legal regulations is evident, mainly concerning the arrival of a seagoing ship or aircraft, the carriage and the presentation of goods to customs when unloaded or transported. moreover, the amendments to the union customs code ensure consistency with existing policies and objectives relevant to trade in goods brought into or taken out of the customs territory of the union permanently or temporarily.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the ep report on the eu regulation on goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the provisions apply to the specific case of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union while travelling on a direct route between two points in that territory by sea or air, without any stop outside the eu. the amendment to the regulation aims to ensure equal treatment of goods and to provide again the legal basis which was already established in the old customs code.
in writing. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 aims to improve the protection of retail investors investing in insurance-based structured individual investment products (priips) and to restore consumer confidence in financial services, given the effects of the financial crisis. in order to achieve these objectives, both the obligation for the creators of these products to comply with the disclosure requirements and the obligation for retail investors to receive key information documents (kids) are provided. in view of certain delays in the adoption of the delegated regulation, it was proposed to postpone the date of application of the regulation by 12 months in order to ensure compliance with all standards and to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the regulation. i consider this 12-month delay to be appropriate in order to remove all legal uncertainties, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the priips proposal introduces a series of measures aimed at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. it requires manufacturers of packaged retail and insurance-based investment products to produce a key information document (‘kid’). the regulation was adopted in 2014 and was supposed to come into force on 1 january 2017. the commission came forward with a regulatory technical standard (rts) on the exact content of the kid. in order to allow the commission to come forward with a revised rts, as the previous one was rejected in september 2016, and avoid uncertainty in the market, in agreement with parliament and the council, the commission postponed the date of implementation by one year. therefore, i support the technical proposal to postpone the date of implementation to 1 january 2018 in order to allow a level 2 legislation on the key information document to be adopted with stronger protection clauses for investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products with regard to the requirement to provide presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents.
in writing. ‒ in the current context, consumers of insurance products need transparency in the financial services sector, responsible behaviour by financial service providers (creators of insurance-based and structured individual investment products) and, above all, the proactive involvement of competent authorities in the member states and at european level. this is because, on the one hand, the range of individual structured and insurance-based investment products is increasing, some of these products are combined with insurance, and are in any case complex and difficult for investors to understand, and, on the other hand, member states are taking divergent and uncoordinated action to ensure investor protection. communication and transparency thus contribute to creating the conditions for the development of constructive competitiveness in the market for individual investments, irrespective of the type of financial intermediary (who produces or markets them) and those relating to investor protection. in this context, the delay of 12 months in the application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 is timely and justified, providing the necessary time for member states to adhere to measures designed to increase investor protection and consumer confidence in individual structured and insurance-based investments.
in writing. this proposal introduces a series of measures aimed at strengthening investor protection and rebuilding consumer confidence in the financial services industry by increasing transparency in the investment market. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. in order to allow for timely review of the document and to avoid market uncertainty, in agreement with the ep and the council, the commission postponed the implementation date until 2018. it is a necessary measure, particularly for investor protection, and i vote in favour of it.
in writing. the cotonou agreement establishes partnership relations between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, and also governs relations between the republic of kiribati and the european union. the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the union and of the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver benefits all categories of persons, thus encouraging tourism and investment. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a powerful instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue between the european union and the republic of kiribati.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in some areas. the signing of short-stay waivers steps up europe’s economic and cultural relations and intensifies political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement was signed in june 2000 by eu member states and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and was concluded for a 20-year period, until 2020, making it the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developing countries and the eu. i have voted for this report on the waiver of short-stay visas for citizens of the eu and the republic of kiribati when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue on a wide range of issues like fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. in order to develop relations with countries around the world, the european union has initiated a broad negotiation process over the past two years to abolish short-stay visas. kiribati is one of the countries party to the eu-acp agreement with which the union wishes to strengthen its political dialogue with a view to enhancing cooperation in areas of common interest. the authorities of kiribati have recently made significant progress in human rights, the achievement of the millennium development goals, and the elimination of sexual violence and discrimination against women. the island state also presents important opportunities for cooperation in the fields of fisheries, agriculture and tourism. as there were no problems with the visa refusal rate for nationals of kiribati, the short-stay visa waiver, except for persons travelling for the purpose of gainful employment, is a logical step in the relationship with that state, which will allow for increased investment and tourism activities, as well as the strengthening of the partnership between the two parties. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. the cotonou agreement marks the partnership between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, and also governs the relations between the solomon islands and the european union. the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the union and solomon islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver benefits all categories of persons, thus encouraging tourism and investment. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a powerful tool for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue between the european union and the solomon islands.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the signing of short-stay waivers is significant for the eu and the states in question, as it signifies greater cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and those states. the visa waiver may boost economic investment in the area concerned and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in some areas.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement was signed in june 2000 by eu member states and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and was concluded for a 20-year period, until 2020, making it the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developing countries and the eu. i have voted for this report on the waiver of short-stay visas for citizens of the eu and solomon islands when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue on a wide range of issues like fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. the cotonou agreement establishes partnership relations between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, and also governs relations between micronesia and the european union. the eu-micronesia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the union and nationals of the federated states of micronesia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver benefits all categories of persons, thus encouraging tourism and investment. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a powerful tool for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue between the european union and the federated states of micronesia.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. a joint declaration on the interpretation of this period of 90 days in any 180-day period is attached to the agreement. the signing of the short stay waivers is significant for the eu and the states in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and those states. the visa waiver agreement may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in some areas.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement was signed in june 2000 by eu member states and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and was concluded for a 20-year period, until 2020, making it the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developing countries and the eu. i have voted for this report on the waiver of short-stay visas for citizens of the eu and micronesia when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue on a wide range of issues like fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. on the basis of the eu-acp partnership agreement, signed in 2000 in cotonou, the european union has in recent years sought to intensify its relations with the countries of these regions. a very concrete way to do this is to negotiate the abolition of short-stay visas for nationals of these countries. the federated states of micronesia is one of the countries with which the eu wants to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues. micronesia currently has a democratic political system that respects human rights and gender equality, and its relationship with the eu generally involves cooperation on climate change and environmental protection. as the visa refusal rate for nationals of this small pacific ocean state is very low, there is the potential for the eu to eliminate short-stay visas for micronesian citizens. this will be beneficial for the intensification of economic relations between the two sides, in particular for the development of the tourism sector. the european parliament is the institution that can decide in favour of strengthening this type of relationship. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. the cotonou agreement establishes partnership relations between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, on the one hand, and the european union and its member states, on the other, and also governs relations between tuvalu and the european union. the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the union and of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver benefits all categories of persons, thus encouraging tourism and investment. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a powerful instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue between the european union and tuvalu.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the signing of the short—stay waiver agreement is significant for the eu and the states in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and the states. the visa waiver agreement may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in some areas.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement was signed in june 2000 by eu member states and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and was concluded for a 20-year period, until 2020, making it the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developing countries and the eu. i have voted for this report on the waiver of short-stay visas for citizens of the eu and tuvalu when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue on a wide range of issues like fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. the cotonou agreement establishes partnership relations between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, and also governs relations between the republic of the marshall islands and the european union. the eu-marshall islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver provides for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the union and of the republic of the marshall islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver benefits all categories of persons, thus encouraging tourism and investment. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is a powerful instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the marshall island when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the signing of the short—stay waivers is significant for the eu and the states in question as it signifies deeper cooperation and mutual understanding between the eu and those states. the visa waiver agreement may act to boost economic investment in the area, and facilitate travel for business and tourism, which may be very limited in some areas.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement was signed in june 2000 by eu member states and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and was concluded for a 20-year period, until 2020, making it the most comprehensive partnership agreement between developing countries and the eu. i have voted for this report on the waiver of short-stay visas for citizens of the eu and the marshall islands when travelling to each other’s territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue on a wide range of issues like fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. the european union's cooperation with the acp countries was enshrined in the cotonou agreement of 2000. since then, the eu's relations with the pacific countries have been on a steady upward trend. one area where cooperation has been fruitful in recent years is the visa regime, where marshall islanders have a negligible turnover rate. the republic of the marshall islands has a stable presidential democratic system in association with the united states and has made remarkable progress in the protection of human rights and gender equality. the island state cooperates very well with the eu, especially on climate change and human rights, and has significant development potential in tourism, services, fisheries and agriculture. in this context, the abolition of short-stay visas will be a natural development and will allow for the intensification of cultural and economic relations between the two sides. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions. since 2002, it has been used for 72 disasters, covering a range of different catastrophic events including floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and draughts. 24 european countries have been supported for an amount of almost eur 4 billion. after an initial stalemate in the council, the esuf regulation was overhauled in 2014. this own ini report, based on the annual commission report from 2014, addresses few aspects of the management of the eusf, such as: response time, prevention policy through, for instance, implementation of the ex-ante conditionalities in the eu cohesion policy, transparency and cooperation between the different levels of decision makers.
in writing. ‒ in 2002 the european union solidarity fund was set up as a response to major natural disasters and to express the eu’s solidarity towards disaster struck regions within europe. since then it has been used for 72 disasters by 24 different countries. i have voted for this report that examined how well this solidarity instrument works and what areas need improvement, including improving the management of the impact of a disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on the european union solidarity fund. this fund was set up after the 2002 floods, as a concrete expression of eu solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. the rapporteur considers that the 12 week deadline for filing claims for compensation is reasonable and considers that their rapid processing is important. in its view, situations in which victims feel abandoned between emergency interventions and the arrival of eusf funds should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement, which aims to establish a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us and supplements, where necessary, data protection safeguards in existing and future data transfer agreements or national provisions authorising such transfers. therefore, it will bring a significant improvement to the current situation. however, i believe that there is a need to solve its main problem, the absence of sufficient rights to judicial redress for permanent residents who are non-eu citizens, as they are excluded from the protections of the judicial redress act. moreover, we must ensure that the european data protection authorities keep their rights to independently assess the data protection environment, as the current wording would solidify the status for the us, regardless of what changes they would make to their internal legislation on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offenses following the parliament’s legal service opinion.
in writing. the signing of the agreement on the protection of personal data transferred and processed in connection with the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences between the united states and the european union is an important step towards strengthening cooperation in the fight against terrorism and international organised crime. it will allow for the protection of personal information in the context of exchanges of information between the two parties, governed by other specific bilateral agreements. in this context, there is a fear that the agreement will replace the provisions of the european treaties in force, by introducing rules incompatible with the acquis communautaire. i consider that these fears are unfounded, since the present agreement does not establish new legal bases but only complements the existing agreements (pnr, tftp or mla). that is why i reject the present resolutions, on the grounds that we need these kinds of strategic agreements in order to be able to continue to support the european project. the european parliament is the institution that can give the necessary legitimacy to this type of approach.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which aims to establish a framework of data protection principles and safeguards for when personal data is transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the eu or the member states and the us and supplements, where necessary, data protection safeguards in existing and future data transfer agreements or national provisions authorising such transfers. therefore, it will bring a significant improvement to the current situation. however, i believe that there is a need to solve its main problem, the absence of sufficient rights to judicial redress for permanent residents who are non-eu citizens, as they are excluded from the protections of the judicial redress act. moreover, we must ensure that the european data protection authorities keep their rights to independently assess the data protection environment, as the current wording would solidify the status for the us, regardless of what changes they would make to their internal legislation on data protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the protection of personal information which will exchange personal with the scope of investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences and acts of terrorism in the framework of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. any citizen from the two parts that considers that his data has been misused will have the access to several accessible and affordable dispute resolution mechanisms. this is the first time that personal data information is exchanged in a secured way with strong obligations on companies handling the data, clear safeguards and transparency obligations on us government access and an effective protection of individual rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that human rights and freedoms must form the basis of any agreements and understandings that the european union signs with its partners to combat crime of all kinds. i strongly believe, as this document proposes, that we can strike a balance between the protection of our citizens' right to privacy and the processing and transfer of personal data between the competent authorities of the european union and the united states. the european parliament reiterates in its recommendation that the transfer of data of citizens and their processing must be done only for the purpose for which these data were collected and cannot be used for any other action unrelated to this purpose. the exchange of data under this agreement should therefore only be for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, and this listing is of utmost importance. the agreement is new in that it will allow citizens to have the legal possibility to seek judicial redress if they believe their rights to access personal information have been violated by both european and us authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep recommendation on the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal information in connection with the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. following the calls made by the ep, on 3 december 2010 the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for an eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data when they are transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism.
in writing. as the signature of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement has not yet been finalised, ghana has decided to start the procedures for ratification of its preliminary economic partnership agreement with the european union concluded in 2007. thus, given that both the union and ghana are making significant efforts towards establishing a full regional economic partnership agreement, this interim agreement remains an appropriate temporary solution. ghana and the european union are important partners in promoting economic integration and stimulating investment, with ghana being one of the main exporters of agri-food products in the economic community of west african states. the economic partnership agreement will also foster job creation through sustainable investment for ghanaians. i have spoken in favour of this agreement because i believe it is an effective tool for preparing the regional economic agreement, but it also has an important contribution to make in terms of the economic relations between the eu and ghana.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the fact that in august 2016 ghana (and subsequently côte d’ivoire) has decided to proceed with ratification of its stepping stone economic partnership agreement (epa) with the european union, concluded back in 2007. the eu has become a prime destination for ghana’s ‘non-traditional’ exports, demonstrating an increasing diversification and value-addition in the country. the iepa is fundamental as it will allow ghanaian exporters to preserve the duty-free preferences on the european market as ghana moves up and consolidates its status as a middle-income country. furthermore, if the regional epa comes into place without excessive delays, any discrepancies in the iepa tariff liberalisation schedules and tariff lines will be solved without a need for additional adaptation to the regional processes. i think this epa will be a big step forward for the development of both regions, and will provide an added value for both economies.
in writing. ‒ the eu negotiated an economic partnership agreement with 16 west african states making west africa eu’s largest trading partner in sub-saharan africa. i have voted for this agreement between the eu and ghana that covers goods and development cooperation. ivory coast, ghana and nigeria account for 80%of west africa’s exports to the eu.
in writing. having examined all possible options for financing additional and unforeseen needs for commitment appropriations, the commission proposed in its draft budget to mobilise, from the contingency margin, the amount of eur 1 164,4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, over the ceiling for commitments of eur 2 578 million in current prices. in 2017, additional financial needs were expected to be met in order to be able to respond effectively to humanitarian, security or refugee crises. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i voted in favour of this report as i consider it essential to mobilise this amount to cover the urgent financial needs of the 2017 challenges.
in writing. ‒ given the absence of any margin in commitments under security and citizenship (heading 3) in 2016, draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 requires the mobilisation of the contingency margin for + eur 240,1 million with a full offsetting in 2016 against the unallocated margin of administration (heading 5). an agreement on the contingency margin was reached in the framework of the 2017 eu budget conciliation. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the contingency margin is a last resort instrument to react to unforeseen circumstances. i have voted for this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016 to a maximum of 0.03% of the gross national income of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the european union has been facing a series of crises, conflicts, both economically and politically, in recent years, and the eu budget was not originally designed to support all these developments. the european commission's assessments have shown that the budgetary contingency margin needs to be accessed this year, which i believe is the right thing to do. i support this report which approves the use of this fund and believe that it is a beneficial solution to respond, as a responsible union, to the needs generated by the migration, refugee and security crisis by increasing the commitment appropriations from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ the funding of the european union's asylum and migration policy has already spent too much of the european budget, with the funds originally earmarked for this component already exceeded. the union has created too many funds, specialised agencies and tools to support the influx of refugees and migrants. it is unacceptable to reallocate huge amounts of budget to finance asylum policy and the integration of refugees, when in europe in 2015 119 million people (23,7% of the population) were at risk of poverty. this money should be used in the interest of the member states to raise the living standards of the poor.
in writing. given the absence of any commitment margin for the security and citizenship framework in 2016, draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016 requires the mobilisation of the reserve margin of approximately eur 240,1 million. i express my support for the adoption of this document.
in writing. ‒ the main effect of draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 is a decrease in the level of payment appropriations by eur 7.3 billion due to under implementation. this money will go back to member states. dab 4/2016 also includes among others a reinforcement by +eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations for security and citizenship (heading 3) and a frontloading of the staffing for the new european border and coast guard regulation. an agreement on this amending budget was reached in the framework of the budget conciliation on 2017 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the eu for the financial year 2016 that will update appropriations taking into consideration the latest developments on reduction of payment, commitment appropriations, migration and security issues.
in writing. the main effect of draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016 is a reduction in the level of payment appropriations by eur 7,3 billion, due to a low implementation. this money will go back to the member states. the document also includes a consolidation of around eur 240,1 million in commitment appropriations for the security and citizenship framework. given the importance of these measures for the member states, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) 5/2016 on the implementation of the new own resources decision no. 2014/335/eu, euratom (ord 2014), following the completion of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016. this dab has no effect on the overall revenue nor expenditure side of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome draft amending budget no 5/2016 which results from the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes such as the reduction of the collection costs of traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of call of the vat-based resource for some member states, and gross reductions in gni-based contributions for some member states. the said draft amending budget aims at incorporating in the revenue side of the 2016 union budget the impact of adjustments to the own resources stemming from the implementation of decision no 2014/335/eu.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise eur 31 475 125 to help the german region of lower bavaria, affected by floods in may and june 2016. the total direct damage caused by the disaster was estimated at eur 1.26 billion by the german authorities. the committee on budgets recommends swift approval of the proposal in sign of solidarity with the affected german regions. the proposal is linked with draft amending budget no 6/2016.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will mobilise the european union solidarity fund for germany following the floods in lower bavaria that occurred in may and june 2016. the german authorities estimated that the disaster caused damage of approximately eur 1 259 million.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2016 is linked to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to germany. the eusf mobilisation relates to floods in germany (lower bavaria) and would amount to eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. i supported the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for germany.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report amending draft budget no 6/2016 that will increase the budget of the european union solidarity fund by eur 31 475 125 following the floods in lower bavaria that occurred in germany between may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ the proposed draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to floods that occurred in germany in may and june 2016. this is under the european union solidarity fund which is a special instrument as defined in the mff regulation, and the corresponding commitment and payments appropriations are to be budgeted over and above the mff ceilings. i therefore support the decision of the commission to amend the 2016 budget and increase the budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy.’
in writing. ‒ the decision on the mobilisation of the contingency margin presented by the commission together with the 2017 eu draft budget, and updated by amending letter no 1/2016, has to be aligned with the agreement reached in conciliation on the 2017 eu budget. the contingency margin is mobilised at a level of eur 1 906.2 million for security and citizenship (heading 3) and global europe (heading 4). it is offset for eur 575.0 million against the unallocated margin under sustainable growth: natural resources (heading 2) in 2017 and for eur 507.3 million in 2017, eur 570.0 million in 2018 and eur 253.9 million in 2019 against the unallocated margins under administration (heading 5).
in writing. ‒ the contingency margin is a last resort instrument to react to unforeseen circumstances. i have voted for this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017 to a maximum of 0.03% of the gross national income of the union.
in writing. after examining all possible options to finance the additional and unforeseen needs for commitment appropriations, the commission proposed in its draft budget to mobilise the flexibility instrument to make available the amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. in 2017, additional financial needs were foreseen in order to be able to respond effectively to the current migration, refugee and security crisis, and the union budget therefore needs to be more flexible in order to be able to address these challenges. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to mobilise this amount to meet the urgent financial needs of the current migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ the decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument presented by the commission together with the 2017 eu draft budget has to be aligned with the agreement reached in conciliation on the 2017 eu budget. the flexibility instrument for 2017 is mobilised in commitment appropriations for an amount of eur 530 million for security and citizenship (heading 3). with this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument the total amount available in 2017 is fully exhausted.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the mobilisation of a flexibility instrument that will finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the on-going migration, refugee and security crisis. the report will mobilise eur 530 million in commitment appropriations for the flexibility instrument, to be used until 2020.
in writing. ‒ an analysis of the financing situation of immediate budgetary measures for the current migration, refugee and security crisis reveals that an additional amount is needed above the ceilings of funding allocated in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. this is because the total amount of the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2017 has been exhausted and the financial needs for managing the refugee crisis alone are increasing, to which are added the financial needs for the other two issues of the european community: migration and security. as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, provided for in article 11 of the mff regulation, is possible and necessary, i voted that there is no other possibility of financing immediate budgetary measures for the three phenomena affecting the socioeconomic life of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 shall therefore mobilise the flexibility instrument to provide eur 530,0 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the current migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ on 30 june 2016 the commission put forward a proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 50 million (in both commitment and payment appropriations). the proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) to enable a timely and efficient reaction in the event of a disaster occurring next year. the budget committee recommends that these amounts be included in the 2017 eu budget. therefore this report is directly linked to the agreement on the 2017 eu budget as a whole.
in writing. ‒ in 2002 the european union solidarity fund was set up as a response to major natural disasters and to express the eu’s solidarity towards disaster-struck regions within europe. since then it has been used for 72 disasters by 24 different countries. i have voted for this report that will provide payment of advances in the 2017 budget for the eusf. the advance payment should not exceed eur 30 million or 10% of the anticipated financial contribution.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) to enable a timely and efficient reaction in the event of a disaster occurring next year. the proposal is not linked to a specific disaster. as proposed by the budget committee, i support these amounts being included in the 2017 eu budget, as it is directly linked to the agreement on the 2017 eu budget as a whole, and in the light of the european commission’s proposal from 30 june 2016 to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for this amount.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for advance payments in the 2017 budget, which provides for the entry in the general budget of the union for 2017 of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations. this amount is necessary to pay advances in a more rapid and efficient manner in the event of a disaster that could occur in the following financial year. the eusf is not just another form of eu financial assistance, but this fund also contributes to a clear political message of solidarity by providing much-needed support to affected citizens. a rapid reaction capability, including through the payment of an advance, will help the union to meet these objectives.
in writing. the budget for 2017 should take into account the main common political priority of reducing youth unemployment by using the available budgetary resources, making the most of the potential of the youth employment initiative in the best possible way. at the same time, a normal development of payments in relation to appropriations for commitments, in the context of execution, must be ensured to avoid an abnormal event of outstanding factors at the end of the year. i voted in favour of the 2017 budgetary procedure: the joint draft budget because we need a budget that is as broad as possible and divided up into the main areas of development, such as reducing youth unemployment, but also to cover the needs of each member state, a budget that is necessary for local development but at the same time also european.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament managed to restore the commission’s initial proposal on all lines cut by the council. furthermore, the parliament delegation managed to ensure a large amount of fresh reinforcements for the key programmes such as growth and jobs and the youth employment initiative. i also find fundamental the allocation of an additional eur 500 million to tackle the crisis in the agriculture sector and to support milk and livestock farmers and the additional eur 5,91 billion to tackle the migration and refugee crisis and reinforce security. finally, i support the decision taken, in order to accommodate a large part of these reinforcements, to mobilise the special instruments available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 regulation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report regarding the draft general budget of the eu for 2017 that was approved by the conciliation committee following the budgetary procedure. the 2017 budget sets, amongst other things, commitment appropriations at eu 157 857.8 million, payment appropriations at eur 134 490.4 million, commitment appropriations for the flexibility instrument at eur 530 million, commitments to the global margin for competitiveness for growth and jobs at eur 1 439.1 million and the contingency margin at eur 1 906.2 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budget report because i believe it is balanced and correctly points out the main funding lines for next year. as the voting document also underlines, it is of the utmost importance that the yei funds for youth employment be increased within the limits of the available funds. ensuring that invoices are paid on time and avoiding large amounts of arrears at the end of the year is also very important to avoid financial stagnation at european level.
in writing. the 2017 budget includes a number of emergency measures to help farmers cope with the current market difficulties. the commission hereby undertakes to monitor the market situation on a regular basis and to present, if necessary, appropriate measures to address needs not covered by appropriations authorised in the budget. i support this motion and vote for its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the situation is extremely hard for these citizens as the quakes have destroyed towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, ruined historic and cultural heritage, damaged economic activities especially smes, agriculture, as well as tourist and gastronomic potentials. the harsh weather conditions of the forthcoming winter season represent a major concern for the big number of displaced persons and it need to be addressed quickly and effectively in order to guarantee decent living conditions for the people deprived of their dwelling. i believe we have to make everything possible in order to show to the citizens that europe stands united and backs them and that solidarity cannot remain on paper. the commission must help the italian authorities without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding the three devastating earthquakes in italy between august and october 2016, killing 290 people, injuring more than 400 and displacing tens of thousands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today because i believe that italy needs our support, that of meps, representatives of all member states, to rebuild the devastated areas and to help the people affected by these earthquakes. the number of citizens who have been forced to leave their homes and have been displaced is worryingly high, and the economic impact of this is in fact devastating for italy's economy. in this context, i believe it is very important that the european union solidarity fund be used as soon as possible to help them overcome these tragedies. i also support this resolution because it underlines the importance of preventing the impact of natural disasters by building earthquake-resistant buildings and infrastructure and by researching and implementing earthquake prediction systems.
in writing. taking into account annex xvi to parliament's rules of procedure on the guidelines for the commission's approval, it is provided that parliament's institution has the possibility to request any information relevant to taking decisions on commissioners-designate, in particular as regards the declaration of interests to be sent to the committee responsible for legal affairs for examination. unfortunately, this annex does not specify the exact scope of the examination by the legal affairs committee, namely whether it should be limited to a formal analysis of the information or, on the contrary, it should be an in-depth analysis. as a result of the difficulties involved in such a poorly detailed provision, which proved to be very important in the appointment procedure of the last european commission, a classification by the committee on constitutional affairs, which has the necessary competence for the interpretation of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, is necessary. i voted in favour of the report on commissioners' declarations of interest guidelines because i believe that there is a need for clear specification on how the declarations of interest of each european commissioner are examined.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines the need for transparency and accountability. in the absence of confirmation of the absence of a conflict of interest the procedure for appointing the commissioner-designate shall be suspended. if the committee on legal affairs identifies a conflict of interests it shall draw up recommendations aimed at resolving the conflict, including renouncing the financial interests in question, changes being made to the portfolio of the commissioner-designate by the president of the commission; in more serious cases and as the last resort the committee on legal affairs can conclude on the inability of the commissioner-designate to exercise his/her function according to the treaty and to the code of conduct. we pushed to extend the obligation to declare financial interests of family members and any contractual relation of the commissioners-designate, which might create a conflict of interests in the performance of their duties as much as possible in order not to leave any legal loopholes. we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report regarding the initiative to change the legal framework for the commissioners’ declarations of interests, representing a step forwards in fighting abuse, upholding transparency and increasing trust in the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to increase transparency and accountability regarding the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the implications of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs and different conflicts of interest in the european commission. as a member of the s&d group, i support this report, as we need greater parliamentary control over conflicts of interests in the european commission. the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice. the european parliament needs the ability to scrutinise candidates properly and politicians need to regain the trust of citizens.
in writing. the offshore safety directive aims to establish requirements for the prevention of major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations within the eu and for limiting the consequences of such accidents. although the provisions of that directive establish that the holders of offshore licences are strictly responsible for preventing and repairing all environmental damage caused by their oil and gas operations, the directive does not regulate liability for civil damage to natural or legal persons or matters relating to criminal liability for offshore accidents. the initiative thus proposes to establish third-party compensation mechanisms for traditional damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations and to create an effective compensation system for the management of relevant payments. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to provide for systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations in the eu.
in writing. ‒ in september 2015 the commission presented a report to the ep and the council on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations pursuant to article 39 of directive 2013/30/eu (the offshore safety directive or osd). the osd defines the elements of such a comprehensive eu-wide framework for preventing major accidents and limiting their consequences. the report deals with what kinds of damage are being paid, financial capacity of liable parties, disbursement of compensation and liability regimes. in his report the rapporteur has focused on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/ property damages/ pure and consequential economic losses). incidents in european waters should not adversely affect the future of the offshore oil and gas operations of the state in question, nor that of the entire eu, were the incident to occur in an area that was largely dependent on tourism for revenue. as a result, compensation and financial security systems for offshore oil and gas operations in the eu should be brought up to speed. i supported the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ over 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in europe comes from offshore operations with ongoing operations planned to take place in the territorial waters of 18 member states. i have voted for this report that will bring together eu member states and the commission to work and ensure that compensation and financial security systems for offshore oil and gas operations in the eu are up to date, providing for compensation of third party claims amongst others.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production activities require a high level of protection due to the major impact on all stakeholders and, in particular, on the environment. eu action in this area must, as a matter of urgency, be based on the principles of precaution, prevention and sustainability and be internationally harmonised. clearly, the polluter pays for the social and economic damage, as incidents in the eu oil and gas sector have serious and lasting, direct and indirect repercussions not only on the environment, but also on various sectors of activity, especially the 'blue economy' sectors (coastal tourism, fishing, etc.) and the community. as such, it is essential to implement a legislative mechanism, based on the assessment of the transposition and application of drm and dso, which is necessary not only for adequate and effective compensation/compensation, but also for the remediation of traditional damage, applicable throughout the eu, for all categories of damage to the environment, to persons (natural and legal), to the community, to the economy, to society in general. member states shall include in that mechanism the guarantee of the existence and/or maintenance, the provision of adequate financial means (including financial guarantee instruments) at the level of operators in the field or responsible persons, necessary to cover the damage and the restoration of ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ the scope of this report is to underline the importance of updating existing liability systems in the european union, such as the offshore safety directive, to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/property damage/pure and consequential economic losses). it is crucial to have effective and adequate compensation mechanisms and claims handling mechanisms for such damage, especially in areas largely dependent on tourism for revenue. such damage would limit the arrival of tourists and reduce the total revenue in those particular areas of the european union. therefore, there is an urgent need for compensation and financial security systems to be brought to speed and to make up for the lost money. as an advocate of the tourism industry in the european parliament, i support this report.
in writing. ‒ in the current pre-electoral deadlock, political and security tensions are on the rise in the democratic republic of the congo. worrying attempts to undermine democratic change, shrinking democratic space and a dramatic increase in human rights violations pose an acute threat to a credible and peaceful transfer of power in congo’s young democracy. i strongly support the call for a successful and timely holding of elections, in full accordance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance and insist on the congolese government’s responsibility to guarantee an environment conducive to transparent, credible and inclusive elections as soon as possible. it is our duty to encourage strongly a credible democratic process and help prevent an escalation of violence and abuse in the drc.
in writing. elections in congo have been postponed to the benefit of twice-elected president joseph kabila. the constitution limits the president to two terms; kabila has already tried to change the constitution to extend his term. these delays in the elections caused turmoil throughout the country. kabila appointed an opposition leader as prime minister, but this did little to defuse tensions. the postponed elections triggered demonstrations that were met with brutal repression. the un peacekeeping operation in the drc is preparing for a crisis. human rights groups criticize the deteriorating situation regarding freedom of expression and association. indeed, political instability is causing chaos in the country and exacerbating poverty and continuing insecurity. i call on president kabila to respect the drc constitution and to resign at the end of his term. the elections should take place on december 19, as originally planned. those unjustly detained during the demonstrations should be released, and the government should stop using force against protesters. peaceful and transparent elections will contribute to the progress and development of the drc.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution regarding the situation in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries as sustainable access to affordable and reliable energy is a fundamental right for both eu citizens and third country nationals. first, the eu needs to develop a framework to tackle energy poverty within the governance of the energy union. the european commission should set targets for member states and third countries with which the eu has intergovernmental agreements on energy poverty and set key indicators for energy poverty. i believe that for european citizens, the eu needs to focus energy efficiency funds and aid for self-generation to target consumers facing energy poverty and low incomes. with regard to the energy situation in third countries, the eu should follow the eu development policy objectives of the lisbon treaty and monitor potential energy security and governance issues in third countries. the commission's 'energizing development' initiative is a good one. eu specialists are needed in developing countries to contribute to the development of technical expertise, capacity building and technology transfer. energy development in these countries will also contribute to health, education, as well as telecommunications and internet connectivity.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding access to energy in developing countries. access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, and accelerates development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i support the rapporteur's position on the need to develop renewable energy and ensure access to clean energy for developing countries. sustainable and secure energy production has implications in all areas of a state's development and is of paramount importance for the living standards of all citizens, especially those on low incomes. in this context, i support the european commission's efforts to boost the development of renewable energy technology in africa.
in writing. ‒ access to energy, especially in developing countries, is essential not only for economic activities, energy being a key driver of development, but for meeting people's basic needs. sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is a fundamental human right and a universal sustainable development goal. moreover, energy poverty is a global challenge that also affects europe, and energy security is a constant objective, as access to energy resources can give rise to conflicts, riots, armed insurrections and can quickly become a matter of international, economic or national security. as such, access to renewable energy (solar and wind) is a necessity and a desire not only for europe. while energy poverty is predominantly found in rural and semi-rural areas, the greatest challenge is to ensure access to energy in urban, highly industrialised areas. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006 creates a european order for payment procedure for claims not contested by the defendant. this simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. it also permits the free circulation of european orders for payment which are recognised and enforced in all eu countries. it applies to all civil and commercial matters in cases where at least one of the parties lives in an eu country different from the one where the application for an order is made. it applies to all eu countries except denmark. the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure is meant to give feedback on the almost 10 years of experience in applying this procedure throughout europe. the main conclusions of the report were positive towards the successful operation of the procedure in all the member states, but making the point that it should be made sure that it is more known and widely used, by informing and assisting citizens. the report also asks the commission to produce an impact assessment and a future revision should focus on ensuring more harmonisation in the application of the procedure and on removing certain exceptions.
in writing. the european order for payment procedure makes it easier to recover amounts in cross-border procedures. it is an optional procedure that can be an alternative to internal payment orders. statistics show that the european order for payment is cheaper and faster than national procedures. however, this instrument is used below its potential as it is mainly used in member states with similar national legislation. i am in favour of this procedure because it has great potential for the economic environment. late payment is one of the main causes of insolvency, threatening the survival of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. the benefits of the procedure should be better understood by ordinary citizens, businesses and legal professionals. the procedure can be made more efficient if it can be done online. updated impact studies are needed. consumption varies widely from one member state to another. citizens are not informed, and this risks diminishing trust in eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european payment order is a procedure that can be used in cross-border cases as an alternative to domestic payment orders. i have voted for this report that will provide easier recovery of sums in cross-border proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure allows creditors to easily obtain an order to recover uncontested civil and commercial claims. it can be applied for by correspondence or electronically, does not require the assistance of a lawyer, and is enforceable in other member states without any need for additional formalities. this system simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. it also permits the free circulation of european orders for payment that are recognised and enforced in all eu countries. this report gives feedback on the almost 10 years of experience in applying this procedure throughout europe and provides some recommendations for the future. i support this report.
blue-card question. – you mentioned the need to create jobs, which is very important. concerning the regulation on domestic passenger transport services by rail, do you not think that there is a need to strengthen the social protection in the new regulation, and that we must keep fighting for transport workers’ rights and job protection?
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to rule on the question of the legality of the aid. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you said that you would not vote for this report - and we are interested in the social dimension, the social democratic group - but that is surprising to me, because this railway package has been in the works for a very long time and i would like to understand: if you do not vote, do you think that the present situation is better than if we voted for this report? and i don't understand why you're contesting the public tender, because i believe the award should be made by public tender.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth railway package is a set of measures which must aim to complete and improve the single transport market in europe, starting with the removal of administrative barriers for operators and ending with the stimulation of competition for this sector. i consider that the agreement reached is nevertheless a step forward, given that the realities in each member state have dictated different views on what the european railway system should look like. overall, the political pillar we will vote on wednesday has the task of laying the foundations for a dynamic and efficient railway system which, in the long term, can ensure the competitiveness of this mode of transport compared to road transport. the transposition of this railway package will contribute to the creation of a stable and more attractive legislative framework for investors. by introducing a tendering system based on criteria of efficiency and transparency, we have a chance to ensure an open environment for competition, which i hope will ultimately translate into better services for passengers. in conclusion, however, i would like to say that work on this report will have to continue even after the vote on wednesday, the next step being to strengthen the social component by ensuring social protection and guaranteeing the rights of employees in this sector. perhaps a social pillar would be necessary to consider.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should: mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have made improvements to this regulation. as also shown in the explanatory memorandum, europe is the region with the highest density of ports in the world. efficient trade also depends on the port network, which is why i consider this regulation important and support it. sure, it's not perfect. and my country has a large number of ports on the danube and the black sea, smaller, larger, and i think that port activity needs to be optimised because, unfortunately, not all maritime ports - the more than twelve thousand in europe - offer high-level services. the current framework of port governance is often not always attractive enough for investors. i therefore agree with the amendments made by the rapporteur and colleagues and consider that the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected, and i also appreciate that the report provides that the selection procedure for service providers is open to all interested parties, non-discriminatory and transparent. it is very good that the system of charges for the use of port infrastructure, defined by the port administration body, and, of course, the vocational training that was discussed, have also been clarified. i therefore support this report and congratulate the commission and the colleagues who have amended the regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for their interventions, which show that there is huge support for the agreement reached between the co—legislators. let me briefly respond to some of the comments. mr mato, there is no ban on fishing below 200 m. fishing will be restricted within the footprint where historical fishing has taken place. exploratory fishing is possible within strict conditions. mr serrão santos, the specificities of the outermost regions were taken into account. for these regions the threshold to define a target is much higher than in mainland europe. of course i understand that some members would have liked to be more ambitious, for example concerning more observers on board. at the same time, i also understand that some members find that this is an extensive framework for a limited fishery, however socio-economically important it may be. here i would like to remind you once again that we need sustainable fisheries, both to secure a future for our fishermen and to protect our deep—sea environment. on this basis, the commission believes that the outcome is balanced and a big step forward, and therefore fully endorses the agreement reached between the co-legislators.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, we are all aware that these are challenging times for free societies, for europe and for fundamental rights. almost daily, we see challenges to our values and our way of life on things that we hold dear, that are fundamental, that enable us to live freely and in harmony with our fellow human beings. the way some people, some politicians included, talk about the terrorist threat, the refugee crisis and the economic situation, all tends to feed these worrying developments. such discourse polarises societies and fuels division, hatred and intolerance. it also nourishes fake news, a reality seen through the spectacles of emotions and not facts. this only leads to a constant erosion of the values and principles that are at the foundation of the democratic societies and the european union. allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on wide support for this resolution and to comment on some key aspects. let me start with accession to the european convention on human rights. as you know, the commission remains fully committed to eu accession to the european convention on human rights. the commission, in its capacity as eu negotiator, is currently consulting with the relevant council working party on solutions for addressing the various objections raised by the court. this work is making good progress. on the rule of law, the commission fully agrees that our common values as enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union must be respected and enforced. as first vice-president timmermans underlined at the plenary session in october, the key issue is to identify the best means to achieve this objective. in that respect, the commission is examining the european parliament’s resolution on a union pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights very carefully, in line with article 225 of the treaty and will give this resolution the serious response it deserves. on mainstreaming the eu charter of fundamental rights, systematic fundamental rights checks during the legislative process are carried out to ensure compliance of draft eu legislation with the eu charter of fundamental rights. the commission’s better regulation agenda includes a fundamental rights checklist that the commission is to use when conducting assessments. the commission also trains specific departments to ensure application of a fundamental rights-based approach to policy and law-making. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, the commission also committed to systematically introducing a summary of its fundamental rights assessment in explanatory memoranda. furthermore, when mainstreaming the rights in the charter in relation to disabled persons, the obligations enshrined in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities should be observed. now let me say a few words on the topic of migration and refugees. full respect of the charter and the safeguarding of individuals’ fundamental rights and freedoms have also been a stated priority for the commission in the design of eu policies and measures in the areas of migration, asylum and integration. in particular, the further harmonisation of the common european asylum system will contribute to swifter access to international protection for those in need of it, safeguarding protection against refoulement and the right to an effective remedy. it will reinforce the guarantees for vulnerable asylum applicants such as unaccompanied minors and women, in terms of their reception conditions and procedural rights. at the same time, it will counter the misuse and abuse of the fundamental right to asylum, including by reducing secondary movements. in parallel to reforming the common european asylum system to adapt it to changing circumstances and better ensure the principle of solidarity between member states, the commission is closely monitoring the transposition and implementation of existing legislation by member states. the action plan on the integration of third country nationals recalls the importance of fundamental values for a successful two-way integration process. understanding and subscribing to the fundamental values on which the european union is built is an essential element of living and participating in the host society. at the same time, these rights also protect the third country national and foster his or her inclusion into our society. the eu agency for fundamental rights is currently working on monitoring the social inclusion and participation of migrants and their descendants in society from a fundamental rights perspective. it will publish in 2017 the results of the second wave of the largest eu-wide survey on experiences of discrimination, hate crime, victimisation and societal participation of migrants and minorities. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities stipulates the obligation of states parties to ensure the protection and safety of persons with disabilities. it requires protecting their integrity and ensuring that they are free from exploitation, violence and abuse. the european commission implements the convention through the european disability strategy for the years 2010-2020 and will soon adopt a progress report. the report also takes into account the un committee’s concluding observations for the eu. trafficking in human beings is prohibited in the eu charter of fundamental rights and constitutes a serious form of organised crime. as required by the 2011 directive in this field, on 2 december, the commission published two reports, one assessing the transposition of the directive by member states, and one assessing the impact of existing national law establishing as a criminal offence the use of services which are the objects of exploitation of trafficking in human beings. the recommendations in your report are very timely since the commission is working now on the post-2016 policy framework and therefore will assess them carefully. on freedom and security, as regards surveillance measures by the state it needs to be kept in mind that such activities by police and intelligence agencies of member states may be based on national legislation pertaining to the protection of national security, an area within the sole competence of the member states. where measures of surveillance are applied by the member states in the context of implementing eu law these states are, however, bound by the charter. on the european arrest warrant, it should be noted that it is operating correctly and successfully in general. every year it helps in bringing thousands of suspects and convicts of dangerous offences to justice. let me inform you shortly about what the commission does against radicalisation, discrimination, xenophobia, hate speech and hate crime. following the approach elaborated in the commission communication on radicalisation, the commission, together with the radicalisation awareness network, supports member states’ efforts in countering radicalisation, in full compliance with fundamental rights, promoting social inclusion and avoiding stigmatisation of any group. the network centre of excellence pools relevant expertise. it identifies best practices and issues policy recommendations and practical guidance that provide member states and stakeholders with the skills and tools to implement more effective preventive measures at national, regional and also local level. the commission’s contribution is focused on the internet, research, inclusive education, common values, rehabilitation and reintegration, and prisons, where it can provide a real added value, mainly by enabling first line practitioners to exchange practices and develop counter-narratives. the prevention of and fight against racism, xenophobia and all other forms of intolerance are a clear priority for the commission. the commission therefore assists member state authorities to improve their responses to hate speech and hate crime. an important area of focus is countering illegal hate speech on the internet. the commission agreed with facebook, twitter, microsoft and youtube in may 2016 a code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online, including clear commitments by the companies to review and, if necessary, take down illegal hate speech more speedily and efficiently. we have just finalised a first monitoring of the code of conduct, which i discussed last week with it providers and ministers of justice. the monitoring showed progress, but also confirmed the need to continue improving the timing of the takedowns of illegal hate speech and also transparency towards the notifying persons. also geographic coverage in the eu is not yet balanced. i got strong support from justice ministers at the council last week to continue on this path and to come back with a further assessment in spring 2017. the fight against discrimination remains a high priority for the commission, notably through awareness-raising activities and the monitoring of the various directives in place in this area. let me say a few words about women’s rights and children and roma rights and citizenship - just to reassure you that i plan to conclude soon. on women’s rights the commission is committed to priorities of its strategic engagement for gender equality for the years 2016 to 2019, which includes actions in response to challenges highlighted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). substantial progress in implementation of the strategic engagement can already be reported. the commission has also made many efforts towards increasing female labour market participation and the equal economic independence of women and men. the commission monitored and assessed the progress of member states in achieving equality between women and men, and provided input to the june 2016 country-specific recommendations on female labour market participation addressed to 10 member states. the commission will continue to promote child-friendly justice and the council of europe guidelines on child-friendly justice, including through its rights of the child funding. detention conditions are so far, however, primarily a responsibility of member states, which agreed to respect the existing council of europe standards on the matter, such as the european prison rules adopted in 2006. children growing up in poverty or social exclusion are less likely than their better-off peers to do well in school, enjoy good health and realise their full potential later in life. the efforts to implement the recommendations should be stepped up in particular for children with special needs, children in street situations, children in alternative care and so on. in the context of the refugee crisis, unaccompanied minors face particular integration challenges. tailored education and training programmes, together with substantial long-term commitment from local hosting and integration systems, are needed to overcome the extremely vulnerable situation of these children. under eu law, all asylum-seeking children should have access to education within three months of filing for asylum. the eu action plan on the integration of third country nationals refers to the importance of early childhood education and care for the integration of migrant children. having an inclusive setting so that children with disabilities have equal access to training, care and facilities, remains also a challenge. the recent forum of the child identified concrete actions such as the situation in the reception facilities, effective guardianship, which we will pursue further and i will discuss this with ministers at the informal justice ministers meeting at the end of january in malta. the commission has no plans to present a specific european strategy on the rights of the child, since we believe that rather than new announcements, it is more useful to continue to focus on mainstreaming these issues right across all our policy work. on roma rights, the commission in its 2016 report on the implementation of the eu framework and the council recommendation on effective roma integration measures in the member states identified a number of most burning challenges. to address them and bring positive changes in the lives of roma, the commission called on member states to address urgently the enforcement of anti-discrimination legislation, eliminate segregation in education and housing and so on. the commission is strongly committed to support member states, ensure the necessary commitment to roma inclusion at the european level, and use all available means to promote dialogue and cooperation. let me conclude with several words on citizenship. the eu charter of fundamental rights has become a powerful safeguard, as demonstrated by its prominence in the rulings of the court of justice, as well as national courts. that being said, general awareness of the charter can still be improved among national judges, as well as citizens in general. to this effect, the commission is funding several projects accessible through the e-justice portal, enabling individuals to know who to turn to in case of breach of a fundamental right. in particular, in october 2016 the e-justice portal integrated the clarity online tool developed by the fundamental rights agency, which helps individuals to identify the competent national non-judicial bodies with a human rights remit. the scope of the tool will be further extended in the upcoming months. we are now more than ever called upon to defend fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law with strong determination. the draft resolution of the european parliament is an important contribution. (applause)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr. president, because i have seventeen times less time than the commissioner's wife i will be telegraphic. from afco's perspective, i would first of all like to welcome the fact that the new framework for the protection of the rule of law has been activated for the first time by the european commission, with the idea of ensuring the protection of the rule of law. secondly, i would like to welcome the fact that two dialogues on the rule of law have been organised within the council of the european union. i would remind you in this context of the resolution on the creation of a mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights which i voted for here in parliament a few months ago. last but not least, i reiterate the european parliament's call on the commission to identify the steps needed for the european union to accede as soon as possible to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commissioner assured us that good progress had been made in this respect, but for years i have not understood what that progress means, because we do not see it.
madam president, the terrorists are attacking the right to life, the european values that we have all built over time, sometimes very hard, and i am referring, for example, to freedom of speech, freedom of speech without fear, or freedom of movement. the revision of the schengen regulation, with the specific aim of strengthening the european union's borders and enhancing the security of european citizens, for which i am the rapporteur, is a contribution to ensuring the right to life. but the strengthening of security and fear must not lead us to the other extreme, must not lead us to hatred. we live in a world where hatred and mistrust grow every day. we must overcome hatred and fear, we must believe, dare and act without fear. in hate and fear we can never live free and happy.
madam president, i welcome the report's statements on minorities and am pleased to note that it sets out a number of facts which the european union has long been obliged to state in relation to the national minority communities living in its territory. such a finding is that in solving minority problems it is necessary to establish minimum standards for the protection of minority rights. it is equally important that the text explicitly states that full equality of these communities should be promoted in all areas of economic, social, political and cultural life. the report calls on the commission to set a policy standard for the protection of minorities, as the protection of these groups is part of the copenhagen criteria, which also apply to member states. the text urges member states to exchange good practices, stressing in particular that administrative reorganisations must not have a negative impact on minorities. i sincerely hope that the adoption of this report will encourage the commission to pay attention to the problems of national minorities, to take a proactive stance, because ignoring the provisions will undermine the credibility of the whole parliament. it is time for the european union to respond to the 50 million citizens belonging to national minorities and to convince them that it is aware of their situation and is ready to demonstrate this through action and legislative initiatives.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have been tempted to react to many of the comments but, due to the fact that i had a very long speech at the beginning when i tried to explain everything we do in the commission in the field of fundamental rights, i would like only to thank you for the discussion and reassure you that the commission remains fully committed to protect the fundamental rights of eu citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by christian ehler and luigi morgano, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, and the committee on culture and education, on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries (2016/2072(ini)) (a8—0357/2016).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i would like very much to thank the committee on culture and education and the committee on industry, research and energy for this joint report. in particular i want to thank mr ehler and mr morgano, the shadow rapporteurs, and ms comodini cachia, the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs, for their work and for their cross-committee cooperation. at the very beginning i fully share your views on the importance of the ccis. they are one of the most dynamic branches of our economy. they are sources of growth, sources of jobs, and as many of you said before, key contributors also to social cohesion. i think, as you do, that the eu needs a coherent policy to support these industries, and we are currently looking into how to give a new impulse to our work on the challenges identified by the 2012 communication on ccis. let me say at this time just a few words on the four challenges identified, because many of you referred to this, and of course they still need to be addressed. first, better access to finance. for me this is a key issue not only for ccis. they cannot grow if, at the same time, they do not have access to finance; so of course we have efsi and we need to really make a lot of effort to focus our cci efforts on these programmes. there are also many opportunities with our different eu programmes, including the structural funds, creative europe, erasmus+, cosme, horizon 2020 but, unfortunately, and i am aware of this this, this funding remains fragmented. creative europe offers a mix of financial support. in the framework we launched in june last year, the cultural creative sector’s guarantee facility fund; it provides guarantees and counter-guarantees and i have to say that it is expected to create up to eur 1 billion worth of bank loans over the next six years. we see a very significant interest of banks and many other financial institutions in this new instrument; the first agreements will be signed in the coming days. in june also we launched, and i think it is worth mentioning here, a smart specialisation platform for industrial modernisation to support interregional cooperation between the regional authorities and the industry, and especially for ccis this is an opportunity for those regions which are interested in those sectors to join forces. the second challenge is an adequate regulatory environment. i agree that protection of copyright and related rights are at the core of the ccis’ revenue. i have said it repeatedly: even in the digital age copyright should continue to reward creativity and provide incentives to innovate. the recent copyright reforms aim at making the marketplace for copyright fairer and more transparent. that is why we are also firmly committed to fight against commercial-scale infringements of iprs. the evolution and review of the ipr enforcement directive is in the pipeline and we have established, it has to be said, eu-level dialogues between the rightholders, intermediaries, brands, civil society, consumer groups and other interested parties. we are also in intense dialogue with the audiovisual industry. the third challenge, from my perspective, is better cross-sectoral cooperation. the commission calls for reinforced cross-sectoral cooperation around ccis because culture and creativity cannot be seen in isolation from other sectors of the economy and public life, such as regional development, education, industry, tourism, health and environment. next year we will launch a dedicated call for proposals to co-fund public-private partnerships which should boost innovation in the tourist sector using the potential of cultural and creative industries. some of you also mentioned this link between tourism and the ccis. the fourth challenge, and many of you referred to this, is of course skills. the new skills agenda adopted in june aims at equipping people with new skills that industry will need in the future, and our main new idea, the blueprint for sectoral cooperation, will support skills development in the fashion industry among others - because we chose six sectors, but the fashion and textile industry is in this framework. we should however also improve creative thinking, for this is one of the top three skills that workers will need in the near future. as from next year a dedicated expert group will look at specific skills, training, knowledge transfer from traditional and emerging heritage professions. on the one hand, we have to make sure that our renowned cultural heritage skills are transmitted to the new generations, but on the other hand, the digital revolution has had a major impact on heritage. new professions are emerging requiring new skills and of course, new accompanying measures. as you know, 2018 will be the european year of cultural heritage. in line with what the report suggests our intention is to use this year, 2018, to give a boost to ccis. to conclude, again i very much welcome the joint report. building on its suggestions, as well as on the actions we have put in place since the 2012 communication, we will reflect on a more coordinated approach to strengthen the competitiveness of ccis. for this we need a series of clear and comprehensive actions focusing on key challenges and also on synergies with other sectors. i will discuss these actions with my fellow commissioners. in this framework, it will be important to improve the use of and access to eu funding, maybe also through a dedicated guide and a one-stop-shop website especially created for the ccis. of course we need to work together across policies, between different levels of governance, and, it has to be underlined, with all of the industrial stakeholders. i am looking forward to this cooperation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. the cultural and creative industries must become a central element in the european union's development and economic policy. the potential of these sectors, their attractiveness to young people and their added value are arguments for investing more at european level. i therefore believe that this report can be a first step towards a common, coherent and constructive policy. to do this, we need to start with a single piece of legislation that defines the opportunities, but is not restrictive, in order to maintain the innovative nature of these industries. we need to create an ecosystem for creativity and innovation, and this involves investing in education and training, in local development and in supporting entrepreneurship or supporting the commercialisation of the products and services offered by these sectors. i come from a country, romania, where these industries are booming, and i would like to be able to say that in the future, the young creative people in my country will be able to turn their ideas into reality, thanks to the european union. in fact, we need to take it on ambitiously that we are willing to take a constructive role in supporting these industries now, when the european union is still competitive and our human resources have not yet left.
the next item is the report by mariya gabriel, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on rights of women in the eastern partnership states (2016/2060(ini)) (a8-0365/2016).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, of course, first i want to thank the rapporteur ms gabriel but also ms le grip for presenting the report. i think this is important because it sheds a light on the many challenges that women have to face in the eastern partnership, but i also want to thank all of you for this exchange of views. we are all aware that although women’s situation differs among the countries in the eastern partnership and the eastern neighbourhood, there are some common problems such as the high level of violence against women, the significant gender pay gaps and the very low representation of women in political and economic life. the commission is strongly committed to move ahead on gender equality and women’s empowerment together with our partner countries and neighbours. the joint declaration of the eastern partnership summit in riga last may clearly mentions gender equality as a key area of cooperation. the european neighbourhood policy review which was adopted in november last year puts a focus on gender equality and gives particular attention to enhancing women’s participation in the economy, their access to justice and social services, and to strengthening support for women’s rights. fighting gender inequality is also acknowledged as vital to prevent radicalisation and terrorism. the eastern partnership foreign affairs ministerial meeting of may 2016 confirmed the commitment to the priorities agreed in riga and the new approach introduced by the european neighbourhood policy review. in addition, it called for a clear focus on delivering tangible results for citizens. in this framework, work has been ongoing to identify 20 key deliverables by 2020. gender is a key cross-cutting deliverable to be addressed. the implementation of the commitments taken in the european neighbourhood policy review, together with the eu gender action plan for 2016-2020, provide the commission with the framework through which we can ensure that all words are translated into real actions. let me just give you a few examples of this. the commission, during the last five years, provided more than eur 100 million that financed more than 100 projects and programmes to directly promote gender equality and improve the situation of women and girls within the neighbourhood. in addition to this, the eu contributed eur 5 million to the women in business programme. the overall objective is to promote and support women’s entrepreneurship, and more broadly women’s participation in business, by facilitating access to finance, as well as non-financial business development services in the eastern partnership countries. we have a very good example here in azerbaijan and in ukraine. let me also say that today’s discussions come at a very important moment for a number of reasons. first, because gender equality is one of the topics being discussed in both the current revision of the association agendas for three dcfta countries, namely georgia, moldova and ukraine, and also in the development of the partnership priorities with our key partner countries. secondly gender features as a key topic of today’s discussion in the foreign affairs council, where ministers will adopt council conclusions on the eastern partnership. and thirdly discussions are still ongoing on the key priorities in the european neighbourhood instrument multiannual programming for our next four years for the eastern partnership, and gender will be mainstreamed throughout support actions according to the gender action plan 2016-20. the new european neighbourhood policy will play its part in helping to create the right conditions for positive development, lead to further strengthening the relations with the countries of the eastern partnership, and bring tangible benefit for all citizens, including of course women.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. one of the major objectives of the european union's foreign policy, as well as of the european neighbourhood policy, is to stabilise its neighbourhood, and to ensure the security, peace, stability and prosperity of all the eastern partnership countries. women play a key role in this respect, with gender equality remaining a horizontal priority in the european neighbourhood policy. in this context, i believe that the eastern partnership countries need to develop concrete measures to ensure that the process of implementing specific economic policies takes into account the gender dimension and addresses the needs of the most disadvantaged groups: the poor, the illiterate, rural women, minorities and people with disabilities. i also believe that eastern partnership countries should promote and support women's political participation and representation at all levels of government, women's involvement in decision-making and the implementation of economic policies, the promotion of business programmes for equal opportunities for men and women in firms and enterprises, and the implementation of local development projects aimed at the economic empowerment of women in eastern partnership countries.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we are in the month of the winter holidays and as we close a difficult year for the european union, but look forward to the year ahead, i will make a wish. for 2017, as a politician with a social democratic vision, that puts the human being at the center of political action, i wish that we all try to do much more in the field of social inclusion. i hope that next year the european union will pay greater attention to policies to protect vulnerable social groups at increased risk of losing their ability to work because of illness, disability, drug or alcohol addiction. in summary, i wish 2017 to be the year of investment, especially in the direction of programmes aimed at simplifying access to a guaranteed minimum health package for disadvantaged groups. i want that minimum 20% of the european social fund guaranteed as allocated to social inclusion to be spent in particular on providing and guaranteeing access to diagnosis and treatment of chronic diseases that european citizens suffer from. happy holidays to you!
madam president, i welcome the decisive victory of the social democratic party of romania in the parliamentary elections on 11 december. in a complicated regional context, this is good news for both the european left and europe in general. on 1 january 2017, romania will celebrate ten years of membership of the european union, ten years in which romanians have established themselves as among the most pro-european citizens of our union, and romania has benefited, albeit not fully, from its membership status. the schengen programme, the maintenance of the cvm or visa waiver for romanians travelling to the united states or canada are just some of the issues that the european union will have to address as a matter of priority. at the same time, my country has provided the european union with stability, continued economic growth and an unquestionable pro-european stance. but my thoughts now go further. on 1 january 2019, romania will take over the presidency of the council of the european union, with a social democratic government at its head. this government is the guarantee that romania will promote common european values and principles. thank you and happy holidays to all.
that concludes the item.
blue-card question. – mr rübig, you are a specialist on energy: would you not consider that we must raise the level of ambition for renewables and energy efficiency and develop further provisions on energy poverty, whilst avoiding hidden subsidies for mature technologies?
in writing. commissioners, i too support the need for a clean energy legislative package. it's not the goal that concerns me, but how you want to implement it. i speak from the perspective of my country, which, although it has a low per capita income, is in first place in the percentage of renewable energy used! you said you wanted to put the consumer at the centre and i'm glad, but did you know that the price of green certificates was included in the consumer bill? the energy mix is subsidiarity under the treaty, and countries have different energy resources and you have to take that into account! why is the strategic investment fund not attached to this important objective? why use the criterion 'first come, first served' and not the criterion of objectives? as a former industrialist, i know that when i wanted to save energy, i had to invest. my country still produces energy from solid fuel! do you know what it means to close tens of thousands of jobs and put nothing back? why is there no money allocated for switching from one energy production system to another? we can't set ourselves good goals, but not allocate money for investments so that we can achieve them without having negative social effects.
in writing. the clean energy proposal promises to increase gdp by 1% over the next ten years and create 900 000 jobs. the commission must, however, put the necessary legislation on the table to ensure the necessary transition to sustainable energy. this transition should focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, smart infrastructure and on finding european-level solutions for interconnections, lng terminals and energy storage capacities. however, it should not be overlooked that the production of energy from renewable sources requires the continuity of conventional energy production. the exploitation of hydropower in the case of romania, of high-efficiency gas and coal-fired power plants, benefiting from the latest technologies, can make a key contribution to unlocking the european energy market. the development of renewable energy implies the creation of a new energy market design, which ensures a level playing field for all market participants. legislative proposals should enable consumers to control energy costs and have access to the full real costs of electricity supplied, including those associated with transmission and distribution.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i too appreciate the workload and the need for this report and congratulate my colleague, but i have a concrete question: does it seem normal to you that there should be an amendment to rule 11 whereby a member is sanctioned if a person who is employed by him and has access to equipment breaches parliamentary conduct? because the deputy doesn't have the ability to punish the employee, instead, the deputy is punished. do you agree with this amendment?
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main promoters of reform and modernisation measures in the union's neighbouring countries. thus, under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the european union is pursuing the progressive opening up of programmes and agencies to enp partner states. algeria is one of the states that has expressed its intention to engage in a series of programmes dedicated to the partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. as a result, a draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, has been concluded. the protocol establishes the financial and technical rules allowing algeria to participate in certain union programmes. i spoke in favour of the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for algeria's participation in union programmes, as i believe that the european neighbourhood policy must be continuously strengthened and that this framework agreement is a powerful instrument for economic, financial and technical cooperation, which is proving to be appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the council issued directives to the commission to negotiate framework agreements, among others, with algeria on the general principles for their participation in union programmes. algeria expressed its interest in participating in the broad range of programmes open to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. this protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. it contains standard clauses that are intended to be applied to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are concluded. as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in algeria.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the opening-up of certain european union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform and modernisation in algeria. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation on establishing an association between the european community and its member states on one side and the people’s democratic republic of algeria on the other, regarding a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ the european union supports cooperation with the countries of north africa, a very important area in its southern neighbourhood. algeria is one of the countries in this region which can play a significant role in the current conditions, both in the mediterranean area and in the wider middle east. through its neighbourhood policy, the eu has supported a close relationship with this country, which has made significant progress in respecting democratic standards and human rights, although it still has many problems to solve internally. however, in the context of the volatile situation in libya and the eu-wide migrant crisis, it would be an important advantage to establish an extended partnership with algeria, which is already an important economic partner of the union, in particular in the energy sector. a first step in this direction is the signing of the framework agreement to allow the algerian state access to union programmes. this would encourage the progress of democratic reforms in algeria, would be beneficial for algerian citizens and would also lead to a reduction of illegal immigration to eu member states via the algerian route. in these circumstances, i consider this to be an important step forward, which takes account of the union's immediate interests. for these reasons, i support the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic has developed at an accelerated pace, against the backdrop of unsustainable practices and overfishing on the continental shelf. this rapid development has occurred without reliance on comprehensive information on the state of deep-sea fish stocks, the level of discards or the effects on marine ecosystems of this fishing activity. the commission has also proposed to amend the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna set out in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 in order to allow the member states to limit the fishing opportunities available to bluefin tuna. this is to collect comprehensive data on the state of fish stocks and to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems on the seabed. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is essential to promote sustainable development in marine ecosystems, precisely to protect marine diversity and deep-sea species.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this compromise text on deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic. it is in line with the principles of the new basic regulation/cfp reform and it ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems. targeted deep-sea fishing will be limited to the area where it occurred in 2009-2011 (freezing the ‘footprint area’); fishing with bottom trawls below 800 metres will be prohibited; vessels will be obliged to report encounters with vulnerable marine ecosystems below a depth of 400 metres and to immediately stop operations and move to an area at least five nautical miles away from the area of encounter. furthermore, it includes an increased scientific observer coverage of 20%, establishes specific sanctions, better conditions for improving data collection and stronger transparency rules. member states will finally be required to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems and the commission will assess this data annually and adapt the allowed fishing area accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it ensures conditions for preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems and establishes better conditions for improving data collection and stronger transparency rules.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this report on deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the final agreement negotiated with the council representatives is a good one, which brings improvements to the legislation on the protection of the deep sea environment. given the fragility of this type of marine environment and the fact that the diversity and quantity of deep-sea fish stocks are at risk due to their slow regeneration, i believe it was extremely important for the eu to adopt a comprehensive and firm regulation in this regard. i appreciate that this agreement imposes high standards of environmental protection, protects deep-sea biodiversity and respects the common fisheries policy and its objectives.
in writing. ‒ in general, promoting sustainable development means including environmental protection requirements in the definition and implementation of eu policies and actions. as regards deep-sea fishing, the need for regulation (in accordance with the precautionary principle) derives from the need for long-term sustainable exploitation of these stocks, not only to prevent significant harmful effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems, but also to ensure the conservation of those fisheries resources. in this respect, scientific advice is indispensable. thus, fishing activities should be made subject to a prior environmental impact assessment, adopting, where appropriate, measures to close areas with vulnerable systems, specific measures to prevent significant effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems, conservation measures to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems. impact assessments of the application of the provisions shall be based on actual and relevant data and information collections. in the interest of environmental protection, it is beneficial to phase out fishing methods that are highly damaging to vulnerable marine ecosystems, while presenting high levels of unwanted deep-sea species catches.
in writing. ‒ fishing is one of the main economic activities for a large part of the eu member states. a significant proportion of this activity is covered by fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic area. in order to protect the vulnerable marine ecosystem on the seabed, the european institutions have been engaged in a stricter regulatory process since january 2014. the agreement currently reached provides for a freeze on the fishing footprint, defining the area in which fishing activities are allowed. that area includes a region in european waters of the north-east atlantic where directed fisheries were conducted during the period 2009-2011 and where catches of deep-sea species are no longer allowed to represent more than 8% of the total annual catches. the depth limit below which this provision applies is 400 m and vessels that fail to respect a distance of at least 5 miles from the area concerned will suffer specific penalties. it also provides for strict rules on the reporting of all catches, the provision of information by member states and the presence of scientific observers on 20% of vessels entering the area. i support the adoption of this recommendation.
mr president, the report states that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of members but a guarantee for parliament as a whole and also a guarantee for members of parliament. i agree with this and that immunity should not be a shield against immoral acts, against those who are not ethical or even against criminal acts. but often the parliament or national parliaments are a shield against criminal acts. our guarantee of independence doesn't mean we can afford anything, anytime, anyhow. we are independent in decision-making, in voting, in expressing opinions, but we are not independent to break the law and then invoke immunity. we are not doing enough, in my opinion, to make our work transparent. we're also not doing enough to protect whistleblowers, those people who from inside the institution tell the outside, tell the press, tell society what's wrong with the institution and expose the illegalities that are being committed. all of this i hope to resolve in a later report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure have been constantly revised, often in the light of the adoption of new treaties that have strengthened the european parliament's powers. this general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament is based on internal reasons, namely: to improve the functioning of parliament, to clarify the rules, to improve transparency, to ensure the protection of parliament against political disruptors aiming to sabotage its work. a number of measures have been proposed to improve the level of detail of the regulation, including technical, legal and linguistic changes. there are also new rules aimed at streamlining the work of the european parliament, with provisions relating to the order of voting for legislative acts being amended to make them clearer, as well as certain limitations on the number of motions for resolutions, written statements and questions for written answer. i have spoken in favour of this proposal for a general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament because it is becoming essential that the work of the european parliament is constantly streamlined in order to be able to respond to all european challenges.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure have been amended several times in recent years to generate better legislation. the european union is always striving to become more transparent in its decision-making, but also closer to each of its citizens. i voted for the revision of parliament's rules of procedure so that those procedural gaps are closed and the results are seen as soon as possible in the lives of every citizen of the community bloc.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has regularly reviewed its rules of procedure, often following the adoption of new treaties that enhanced the powers of the european parliament. on this occasion, the overhaul of the rules is largely due to internal reasons: to make parliament operate better, to clarify the rules, to improve transparency, to protect parliament from disruption by political elements intent on sabotaging its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament because improving the functioning of the parliament is essential. it is important to have clear rules that improve transparency and ensure the protection of parliament against disruptive political elements that aim to sabotage its work. given that the european parliament represents the interests of citizens, it is important that this institution be efficient, transparent and trusted by them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this new set of rules will make the european parliament more transparent, efficient, open and ready to listen to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the rules of procedure of the european parliament are regularly reviewed in order to be up to date following adoptions of new treaties that enhance the power of the european parliament. i have voted for this report on the general revision of the european parliament’s rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the general revision of the rules of procedure because the level of debate in the european parliament in recent years has reached a level which requires that certain sanctions be tightened. i'm referring to members of this respectable forum who engage in offensive behavior and use racist or xenophobic messages in public speeches. i support and have always supported debates, i have encouraged in political activity the expression of differences of opinion, because each of my colleagues represents the opinions and views of a certain group of citizens of the european union and must represent them. at the same time, i reject in any circumstances extremist, defamatory, racist or xenophobic messages which, in my opinion, have no place in a democratic institution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is the institution that ensures the direct representation of citizens' interests at union level. its functioning is governed by the rules of procedure, which contain provisions relating to every aspect of its current and periodic activities. at certain intervals, the regulation is subject to a general review, aimed at correcting minor deficiencies or updating provisions whose application is problematic. the current amendment brings to the fore changes related to agreements after the first and second readings where the role of committees becomes more important, thematic debates in plenary, simplification of the thresholds required for various legislative initiatives, change of the composition of committees where political groups gain more prerogatives, the order of voting on legislation by simplifying the voting on resolutions, limitation of written questions, motions for resolutions, written questions and oral explanations of votes. in addition, improper conduct will be sanctioned, gender issues will be examined by the committee on women's rights and gender equality; hearings of european commissioners, the composition of interparliamentary delegations (with a view to national diversity) and increased transparency of the work of meps are regulated. these are changes that help make parliament's work more efficient and open to european citizens. that is why i support the adoption of this necessary report.
mr. president, i don't understand what they're looking for in a human rights report a reference to the cancellation of the cooperation and verification mechanism in romania and bulgaria. the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania and bulgaria has been and is a success, at least for romania. anti-corruption institutions and judicial institutions have been protected by this mechanism all along, because there are many politicians who attack the judiciary, attack anti-corruption prosecutors, attack even individual prosecutors and judges and, once again, all that anti-corruption means. why would you do that? because they don't want to be investigated, they don't want to be convicted, they want to get away. that is why this mechanism is very useful and it should only stop when it has done its job. it's a specific mechanism through which romania and bulgaria, when they joined the european union, made certain promises -- to continue the fight against corruption. therefore, when these promises are fulfilled, the mechanism can cease. not until then. it can go hand in hand with any other rule of law pact or mechanism that is being discussed in the european parliament. if i may say one last sentence, an election campaign has just ended in romania and many, many mps who have attacked anti-corruption bodies throughout the campaign have entered the romanian parliament.
in writing. ‒ violence against women is a violation of fundamental rights affecting all levels of society, regardless of age, education, income, social position and country of origin or residence, and gender inequality and gender-based stereotypes increase the risk of violence and other forms of exploitation and prevent the full participation of women in all areas. given that equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the eu and that any discrimination based on gender is prohibited, i believe that in order to effectively combat gender-based violence, a change in attitudes towards women and girls is necessary. in this context, i believe that the commission should share member states' best practices for addressing gender stereotypes and that member states should do more to combat gender-based stereotypes that reproduce and reinforce gender roles in key areas where such stereotypes are perpetuated.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which addresses fundamental issues and strongly condemns the lack of humanity shown at european borders. social inclusion and integration of migrants and refugees and the granting of international protection in the host society is part of a dynamic and multi-dimensional process, in which respect for european values must be a priority. i support the call on member states to apply integration policies as swiftly as possible and with adequate dedicated resources, and to develop them in cooperation with national institutions, local governments, schools, ngos, as well as migrants and refugee communities. it is important to consider that access to education is one of the foundations for the integration of refugees. we will continue fighting for the principles of decency and equality, and will not accept any form of discrimination in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is essential to have a situation on respect for fundamental rights in the eu. the charter of fundamental rights, a document with the same legal value as the treaties, underlines their importance for the eu. the european union is a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. in the current global context, the eu and its member states should uphold and ensure that these values are respected in every action they take. in all actions taken by the member states and the eu, it is essential to respect fundamental rights and civil liberties, including respect for private and family life, the right to liberty and security, the right to the protection of personal data, the presumption of innocence and the right of defence, the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial, freedom of expression and information, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. any form of discrimination against any of our citizens should not be accepted.
in writing. ‒ the charter of fundamental rights of the eu was proclaimed in 2000 and became legally binding on the eu with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009. i have voted for this report that enshrines certain political, social and economic rights for eu citizens and residents in eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which in fact provides a succinct analysis of the state of the union with regard to the situation of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, because i believe that current debates and social developments should not make us forget that we are a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law. in this regard, today's report recalls the importance of member states adhering to these values in their internal and external actions. i also think it is appropriate to propose in the report that the eu, through its member states, ratify the council of europe convention on combating trafficking in human beings, and that promoting and supporting programmes against racism and discrimination through education should be one of our priorities.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a community united in diversity, founded on the values of respect for democracy and the rule of law, human dignity, freedom, equality, human rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities. as such, respect for fundamental rights is at the heart of the european construction, which requires an assessment of their situation at community level, taking into account the evidence of numerous human rights violations in the eu (as shown in the reports of the european commission, the fundamental rights agency (fra), the council of europe, the un and various ngos). the situation regarding respect for fundamental rights in the eu draws the attention of all concerned to the need to base all actions taken by the community and the member states on the principles and values of the rule of law and democracy, fundamental rights and civil liberties. the impact assessments of all legislative proposals must also include aspects of fundamental rights and freedoms in the eu. in this context, the rationale, operationalization and implementation of sound policies and mechanisms anchored in the reality of the present and taking into account the dangers of the future, in terms of social inclusion and integration, access to education and training, freedom of expression, security and protection (of rights and integrity), is the key to ensuring fundamental rights in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on a number of fundamental principles, including the fight against all forms of discrimination and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. unfortunately, in the context of the increased migration of people from outside the eu affected by war and persecution, a number of xenophobic attitudes towards these groups, but also towards other minorities within the territory of the member states, for example towards the roma minority, have also emerged. the european institutions must further promote social inclusion and the integration of migrants and refugees into host societies, based on respect for the rule of law, the principles of integration, freedom and security, by supporting the fight against trafficking in human beings, discrimination, xenophobia, hate speech, violence against women and children. member states should apply the principles of integration of these groups and ensure the protection of the rights of minorities of all kinds, persons with disabilities, including the roma minority and sexual minorities, through close cooperation between national and local authorities, schools, ngos and refugee communities. this document condemns the discrimination faced by sexual minorities in some member states and recommends appropriate measures to protect them. i support the adoption of this report, which upholds the principles of decency and equality among our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted today on the own-initiative report which takes stock of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the report emphasises that minorities, who have lived alongside or alongside majority cultures in europe for centuries, continue to face discrimination in the union. the report considers that the solution to this problem lies in the need to establish minimum standards for the protection of minority rights. minority communities have specific needs and full equality of these communities in all areas of economic, social, political and cultural life should be promoted. the report also encourages those member states which have not yet done so to ratify without further delay the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages.
mr president, in 2013 the international trade in counterfeit and pirated goods caused damage of eur 85 billion in the european union alone. intellectual property rights were established precisely to ensure that creative and inventive efforts are rewarded and respected and to encourage investment in new and effective products. let us not forget, creation is unique and its copying, its repetition in many other forms must be prohibited and must be punished. the creative and cultural industries create a bridge between art, culture, business and industry. european culture and art are based on 3,000 years of common cultural heritage. the cultural and creative industries promote cultural diversity and strengthen european identity. they also provide over 12 million jobs. the report promotes innovation and entrepreneurship in these cultural and creative sectors and improves access to finance and new creative models.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries are an important sector at eu level, based on a set of values such as creativity, artistic and cultural skills. the cultural industries generate both jobs, with a positive impact on the economy, and added value for europe's cultural heritage. this segment includes cultural and creative contributions such as the performing arts, cultural heritage, artistic crafts, libraries and, not least, audiovisual. given the importance of the cultural and creative industries, a number of measures and efforts are required to strengthen and support this area. this report proposes seven key policy areas, including: monitoring the development of the sector to create tailored solutions for the icc, addressing the evolution of skills needs and overcoming the skills gap, and collecting reliable statistics and data based on a comprehensive definition to raise awareness of the characteristics and needs of the sector. the cultural and creative industries have a key role to play in preserving cultural diversity, european heritage, pluralism, which is why i voted in favour of this report and i am confident that through this instrument the cultural and creative industries will enjoy greater support.
in writing. ‒ the assets that define europe in the world are: culture, art and creativity. in its 3000 years of cultural heritage, the cultural and creative industries have marked the evolution of european civilisations. supporting them, especially in a context of the transition to the digital economy, becomes a strategic need, as they are intended to preserve linguistic and cultural diversity, as well as ethnic pluralism. in addition to the economic impact generated by these industries, they also represent a solid pillar in strengthening international partnerships. i voted in favour of supporting these industries which play a key role in the reindustrialisation of europe and which are a vector for economic growth. i believe that the european union must take a leading role in promoting policies that support culture.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that women in the cultural and creative industries face the same barriers as in other economic sectors, in particular in terms of the gender pay and pension gap, access to finance, stereotypes, training and lifelong learning. i believe that the immense potential of innovative and entrepreneurial women and the important role they play in the cultural and creative industries must be stimulated and therefore i believe that all member states should be encouraged to ensure appropriate financial support and training by promoting the exchange of good practices in the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that deals with the precarious contractual situation in the cultural and creative industry and will ensure the respect for fundamental social and labour standards. s&d had three main goals to insert in the report in order to have a coherent report: to complete the funding aspect of the cultural and creative industries; to strengthen the protection of authors and creators; and to introduce the social and labour dimension. all three goals were enhanced and included to the report by committee vote. the commission is called to take the appropriate measures to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and right holders receive fair remuneration for their works.
in writing. ‒ in this report the commission is called to take the appropriate measures to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, creators, performers and right holders receive fair remuneration for their works. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries represent industries based on cultural values, creativity, skills and talent that is likely to create jobs and wealth by generating value from intellectual property. i have voted for this report that will try to realise the full potential of cultural and creative industries through combined actions at national, regional and local level as well as eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report thinking that before any customs union, banking union, common market, we were a union of common values, and europe is built on this common european culture, it is a space that would not have existed without the contribution of some geniuses who have, throughout history, provoked cultural revolutions that have changed the whole world. culture is indeed our 'raw material', and we feel it every time we move away from the european space. it is the main reason why i consider this report, which has been long negotiated, necessary and why proposals to encourage the cultural and creative industries are most welcome. supporting coherent policies in the cultural and artistic space will stimulate creativity, guarantee more jobs for artists, whether established or newcomers. in this respect, i welcome the proposal to promote cooperation between art schools, vocational and technical education institutions, universities and cultural and creative enterprises in all member states. last but not least, i voted for this report because it also addresses the issue of improving the role of public investment banks in these sectors by making it easier to lend to smes in the cultural and artistic sectors.
in writing. ‒ europe is a major power for businesses in the cultural and creative industries: in 2014, cultural goods accounted for more than eur 27 billion of european exports, and fashion-related goods for more than eur 200 billion. in many parts of the world, europe is identified with its culture and its historical heritage, and it is therefore very important that the european union has a coherent policy in this area. this cultural and creative industry is based on europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, the strength of regional identities, and the living experience of european history. therefore, supporting cultural and linguistic diversity also means preserving and reproducing the most important component of cultural and creative industries, and the social benefits can be quantified. it would be important for member states to value and preserve this diversity in a similar way.
in writing. ‒ the need for a synergistic, coherent and strategically integrated policy at european level in relation to the cultural and creative industries derives from a multitude of reasons: the economic and social performance of the two industries, their strategic position within national economies, generating positive effects in other sectors of the national and european economy (tourism, trade, education, ict, industry, etc.), and the major impact on human development in general. the digital age does not exclude the development of cultural and creative industries, but on the contrary, it contributes to their manifestation in different forms and degrees of complexity by generating creative conditions and ecosystems. the policy on cultural and creative industries must be based on different approaches to creativity (including cultural): from the perspective of the created product, from the perspective of the creative process and from the perspective of the creative person. strategies for the development and financing of smes in the cultural and creative industries, strategies for the implementation of a legal and institutional framework for creative artistic activity (the creative process), strategies and plans for training and development of creative skills should be developed. this is all possible through the development of stronger partnerships between the cultural and creative industries, between the social partners and education and training providers, between all stakeholders within those industries.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package that would address the precarious contractual situation in the cultural and creative industries and ensure compliance with fundamental social and labour standards. the commission is invited to take appropriate measures to reduce the difference in value and to ensure that authors, creators, artists and rightholders receive fair remuneration for their works. i particularly appreciate the inclusion of the social dimension in the report and i support it by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries, appreciating the rapporteur's constant attention to the sme sector. the report draws attention to the fact that the cultural and creative industries are at the heart of a dual and delicate ecosystem between large, internationally competitive groups and innovative smes and start-ups, which are constantly renewing the area, preserving and promoting diversity, creating jobs, but are sometimes fragile, especially in terms of access to markets and finance. the rapporteur stresses that research into rights holders and non-transparent copyright rules represents administrative burdens that impose high costs and considerable effort, especially for smes working on a cross-border basis, recommending the establishment of a common pan-european database with all available information on rights holders for each sector in order to facilitate the granting of rights. the rapporteur also points out that the eu should not only consider culture from the perspective of the internal market, competition or trade policy, but also as an element of europe's cooperation and development policy, taking into account the specific characteristics of the eu's cultural spectrum.
mr president, this is about women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. they continue to be discriminated against in moldova, ukraine, georgia and the other eastern states. women are underrepresented in politics, as well as in public administration. it's very hard to find a job, especially women with children. also, the rate of violence against women is not decreasing at all, it is relatively high, and these stereotypes persist: the differences between men and women and the role of women in society - in the sense that women are considered to have a subordinate role to men. in addition, roma women and girls are discriminated against and for this reason, ethnically, and also very importantly, they don't go to school. they spend a lot less time on their own education and as such they remain outside of society, on the margins of society and all these things will affect their lives, they cannot find jobs. what the union can do now is to play a much bigger role in solving these problems through different conditionalities in relation to the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ the eastern partnership is a joint initiative of the european union, its member states and six partner countries from eastern europe and the south caucasus, based on a commitment to fundamental human rights, democracy, the rule of law, with particular emphasis on gender equality and women's rights. thus, the low participation of women in political power structures, whether executive or parliamentary, has been reported, mainly due to discriminatory practices and gender stereotypes. these types of trait associations can limit women's personal and professional development, limit women's potential and also lead to different forms of discrimination in the labour market. domestic violence is also a problem that a significant percentage of women face. between 7% and 25% of women (depending on the country) have been victims of domestic violence. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only by promoting gender equality and respecting fundamental human rights can we speak of a real and prosperous democracy.
in writing. ‒ neighbourhood stability is a major objective of the european union's foreign policy, with a direct impact on the citizens of the bloc, who must enjoy security, peace, stability and prosperity. the eastern partnership was launched in 2009 as an initiative of the european union and six partner countries from eastern europe and the south caucasus: the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the provisions of this agreement. this pact is based on respect for international law, the fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but the importance of gender equality and women's rights should not be forgotten. women's rights and gender equality are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all signatory eastern partnership countries. however, they are underrepresented in senior positions compared to men. only 14% of ministerial positions and 16% of seats in parliament are held by them. we voted for the promotion of women's rights and gender equality in all the eastern partnership member states, but also for their promotion as a political priority of the union.
in writing. ‒ many rural women, who have no other options, tend to accept low-paid jobs in agriculture, often without formal declaration and without any social security rights. i believe that the eastern partnership countries must find the best solutions to eliminate inequalities between women and men in agriculture, which would certainly help to ensure equal access to jobs for women and men, as well as equal pay for work of equal value.
in writing. ‒ even though women’s rights and gender equality are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems of all six eastern partnership countries (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine), social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes remain important and prevent greater inclusion of women in the labour market and participation in political decision-making processes. also violence against women and the lack of sexual and reproductive health and rights remains a problem. the eu needs to impose more actively gender equality and gender mainstreaming through the many useful instruments of its neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the social affairs committee of the euronest parliamentary assembly delegation on the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries, i voted for this report because we need to get involved in improving the situation of women's labour market in these countries. first, we need to focus on gender equality as a shared value from the eu-eastern partnership perspective. secondly, concrete eu-eea cooperation in this area is a priority to achieve the desired results. most of the challenges are of the same nature for the eu and its eastern neighbours, but a political boost can help to promote women's rights and gender equality within the political priorities of the eastern partnership. all countries within the eea have developed strategies, programmes or action plans to improve the situation of women. the eu should help partners implement commitments in line with these strategies and national objectives, and provide expertise for the adjustment of labour legislation on gender equality and the improvement of women's participation in the labour market and decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu needs to impose gender equality and gender mainstreaming more actively through the many useful instruments of its neighbourhood policy. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in order to open the pathway to discussions of trade, human rights, economic strategy and travel agreements, amongst other issues, with armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine, the eu inaugurated the european partnership on 7 may 2009. i have voted for this report that highlights the barriers to women’s empowerment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this ambitious report, which analyses the situation of women in the eastern partnership countries and proposes solutions for improvement, and i welcome it as respecting, promoting and guaranteeing gender equality is part of the european union's wishes. the report correctly notes that violence against women is still significant in many of the eastern partnership countries and takes multiple forms such as physical, emotional, threats or sexual abuse. i appreciate that the report adopted today calls on partner countries to promote women's political participation, to respect the principle of gender equality in pay and promotion at work. i also consider it beneficial for all eastern partnership countries to ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence as soon as possible and for national authorities to develop, in partnership with the eu, strategies to combat violence against women and to strictly monitor their implementation.
in writing. ‒ in general, the situation of women in europe is not adequate to their role and importance in ensuring the sustainable development of society. the european institute for gender equality also points out that the european union is only halfway to a gender-equal society. in this context, it is clear that women's rights in the eea states are also not respected, with gender equality remaining a horizontal priority in the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). in order to ensure respect for women's rights and to improve their social and economic situation in those countries, there must be general political stability and the necessary framework for respect for human rights in general. specific measures to improve the situation of women in the eea states, included in national action plans, resulting from cooperation with international organisations and civil society actors, are thus urgently needed. moreover, the eea states should promote and support women's socio-economic and political participation and leadership, taking into account that they have a high level of integration in the labour market, playing an important role in conflict resolution and peacebuilding.
in writing. the report covers the situation of women's rights in six eastern partnership countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy (enp). although women's rights and gender equality are enshrined in the constitutions and legal systems in all these countries (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine), social, economic discrimination and gender stereotypes remain important issues. the eu needs to be more active in promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming through the many useful instruments of its neighbourhood policy. i therefore support the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. the report draws attention to the fact that women are predominantly active in low-wage sectors in all the eastern partnership countries, despite their higher education level. the report calls for women's involvement in economic policy-making and policy implementation, the promotion of business programmes aimed at the integration and promotion of women in firms and enterprises, and the implementation of local development projects aimed at women's economic empowerment. the report also calls on the eastern partnership countries to allocate more resources to combating all forms of violence against women, including amending legal instruments and providing assistance to victims of violence.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur. as you know, we discuss our annual human rights reports twice a year, but if i look at the long list of debates we have had together in this chamber over the last year, human rights have been at the centre of each and every european parliament plenary. even today, a few hours ago, we listened to our sakharov prize laureates, who i have just had the honour of meeting, saying that they look up to europe as a symbol of humanity. this is not simply an institutional duty that we fulfil. our work on human rights lies at the core of our foreign policy. it defines our european union and it defines who we are. whatever we do concerns the real lives of real human beings. we do understand power politics and the great games of international affairs. not only do we understand them, but we often play our part to shape them. but we never forget that everything we do is about real people. this is the european way in foreign policy. we are not naive and we are not cynical. in the global strategy we refer to principled pragmatism and that is our way. this will be even more important in the months and years to come. the decision by some countries to withdraw from the rome statute of the international criminal court demonstrates that the pressure on the international system of global governance is going to be raised. there will be – there is already – a growing demand for a power that stands on the side of human rights. we are, more and more, an indispensable power – an indispensable power for human rights, for multilateralism, for a rules-based global order. the report we are discussing today shows once again that all institutions of this union stand on the same side. i am glad that you have shown your support not only for our action plan on human rights, but also for our operation sophia and for our new external investment plan. we agree on fundamentals, we agree on the vision, and we share the view that 2016 has been a very difficult year indeed for democracy and human rights. we are all convinced that there is no sustainable development without human rights, and there is no sustainable security without fundamental freedoms. this is what the global strategy calls resilience. our states and our societies are strong only when democracy is strong, when the debate is free and open, when human rights are respected, when the space for participation is open and guaranteed, and participation itself is active and welcomed. human rights abuses do not make a country more stable or more secure. on the contrary, they only make societies less resilient and weaken the legitimacy of institutions. this vision is already inspiring our actions in very concrete ways. let me give a few examples. first, the report talks about our missions and operations and the link between security and human rights. the prevention of human rights abuses is indeed becoming a key focus, a key element for our work on security. the eu action plan on human rights says that our support for our partners’ security forces must always be consistent with the promotion of human rights. we are doing this in practice every single day, for instance also through my proposal of a european framework to support security sector reform. 2017 will be the year of a mid—term review for the action plan and we are already working on a daily basis to make it a meaningful review. second, the report rightly focuses on civil society and the restrictions on freedom of expression. it is almost impossible to mention all the initiatives we have put in place to preserve and enlarge the space for pluralism and free debate. some of you attended the annual eu—ngo forum a few days ago in brussels. you know our dialogue with civil society organisations is constant and intense, both in our region and worldwide. the eu4humanrights campaign has raised awareness about human rights in europe and beyond. let me thank in particular, as you did, our special representative stavros lambrinidis, who is here with me today, as he always is whenever we have these debates in this chamber. his work is making a difference every single day for so many people and in particular for human rights activists and campaigners. you were talking about visits, dialogues and meetings – he is in strong and constant connection with me and with all our services and thus with many of you, and is our hand, our brain, our voice in handling difficult cases, in many cases with success and results of which we are proud. thank you, stavros. in 2016 the european instrument for democracy and human rights directly supported more than 250 human rights defenders and their families who were at risk because of their daily work. on the third element, we are engaging constantly with our partners through dedicated human rights dialogues. i know that this is a delicate chapter of our work and i will start with the most delicate example. yesterday in brussels i met with bruno rodriguez, the foreign minister of cuba. our relationship with cuba has entered a completely new phase and one of the first new steps we took was to start a dialogue on human rights. we have had two rounds of that – one in europe and one in havana – and i believe there is no other way to try to make a real difference than to engage constantly and tirelessly in trying to improve the situation on the ground, having frank and open discussions with our partners. finally, we are keeping human rights and the rights of women and children in particular at the core of peace talks and reconciliation processes. syria is constantly on our minds, in these hours in particular as we are receiving terrible reports from the ground. here i would like to take the opportunity in this debate to add my voice to that of the un secretary—general, who just a few hours ago underlined the obligation of all parties on the ground to protect civilians and abide by international humanitarian and human rights law, recalling that this is particularly the responsibility of the syrian government and its allies. those who perpetrate war crimes will be held accountable. the priority now, in these hours, is to protect civilians and guarantee them safe and monitored transit to a place of safety. we all know that it is also crucial – still in syria, but in the future – to be working on protecting everyone’s rights through the transition, and in the transition, at the moment when a political process is finally put in place. but let me also mention a success story – as you did – and some positive examples: the peace deal in colombia, an agreement for all the victims of conflicts that would provide a sound basis towards justice, reconciliation and reaching the truth. i am honoured that juan manuel santos, the president of columbia, was in brussels with us yesterday on his first international visit after receiving the nobel peace prize; together we launched the eu trust fund, precisely to accompany the implementation of the peace agreement in colombia. so let me conclude on a positive note. yes, the situation of human rights in the word is very serious, but there are also success stories. wherever things are moving in the right direction, the european union is there, engaged directly through our funds, our delegations, our special representatives, dialogues and diplomacy. my message for you is the same one that i delivered to the ngos a few days ago: we all need to be vigilant, we need to be critical where necessary, but we also need to amplify the success stories. we need to talk about the real people behind the numbers and beyond the budget lines. we need to show that the european union is practically and concretely a force for human rights, a force for democracy and a force for good. we need our voice – your voice – to be heard on this too, more than ever. (applause)
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. as rapporteur myself last year, i know that this is not an easy task. i would then like to emphasize the points contained in the opinion of the committee on development which i drafted this year. as you know, development, human rights and democracy are intrinsically linked, and i am pleased to see these themes prominently featured in the report we are voting on tomorrow. human rights, good governance, democracy and the rule of law are essential elements for eradicating poverty and inequality, and vice versa, poverty and inequality endanger the enjoyment of human rights. in the committee on development, we welcomed the inclusion of a chapter on development in the 2015 annual report and wished this to become a regular practice. we also want to see a real synchronisation between human rights and all our development cooperation, starting with the implementation of the 2030 agenda. i believe that human rights must be a major cross-cutting element in the achievement of the sustainable development goals. and i must also stress the paramount importance of objective 16 to guarantee peace, justice and integration in societies, since without peace our development aid cannot achieve its goals and respect for human rights cannot be ensured. finally, as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i would like to stress the usefulness of this obligation under article 208 of the treaty for the realisation of human rights.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in 2015, as described in this report, has largely highlighted the shortcomings of european policy on the matter. a number of policy documents, resolutions and treaties listed in this report condemn abuses in all their forms in many parts of the world, including the european union. despite legislative efforts by relevant international organisations, including the european institutions and civil society, we cannot speak, from one year to the next, of a systematic and irreversible improvement in the human rights situation in the world. this shows that the mechanisms through which human rights should be respected are not working as they should or are seriously deficient, especially in their capacity to prevent and act. human rights are a fluid concept, difficult to quantify and evaluate and often interpretable, mostly in bad faith. i'll give you an example: respect for human rights is a field that is deeply connected to the justice system and the education system. in countries with corrupt and/or authoritarian regimes, these systems falsify human rights. unfortunately, the european union itself continues to have double standards in its dealings with states where human rights are systematically violated. if these rights are merely a 'passe-partout' concept, at the declarative level, our role as a vector of development will be neither recognised nor appreciated and, in the end, will remain ineffective.
mr president, on the horizon of the year (hors micro) there is little hope for a better world, one in which peace reigns. war, violence, and persecution are driving thousands of people from their homes on many continents. the year 2015 was a year of extraordinary challenges for the european union and the international community, against the backdrop of instability and conflict in the middle east and in parts of asia and africa, followed by the migrant crisis, as well as terrorist attacks against civilians. we have a paradox: states tend to become more repressive because the fight against terrorism is an argument for mass surveillance, suppression or curtailment of human rights, but on the other hand, it is the reason why more and more people are fighting for their rights. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr weidenholzer, on his well-crafted and balanced report and i hope that it will make a substantial contribution to the protection and implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development by peaceful means, and to putting human rights at the heart of the european union's relations with all third countries.
in turkey, nearly 40,000 people are in prison and another 100,000 have lost their jobs. there are suspicious deaths every day, people disappear, nothing is known about them and there are no investigations. russia is bombing civilians and hospitals in syria. in ukraine there are over a million people internally displaced by war and aggression. in china, there are many political leaders who consider human rights to be foreign infiltration, and obviously they lock up human rights activists. there are 300 activists and lawyers arrested in china in 2015 alone. and what are we doing here? we close our eyes and we continue to talk about bilateral treaties, financial aid, trade treaties, alliances with all these countries. if the union has undertaken foreign policies based on the rule of law, human rights and democracy, then it should also put them into practice with these countries.
mr president, today, when human rights are under threat worldwide, when more and more people are fleeing from war and armed conflicts, and when there are more than 250 million children alone living in countries affected by conflict, many of them forcibly displaced, coherent and strong eu action is ever more important in order to support the development of long-term sustainable solutions in areas of conflict and oppression. this is why i believe that the report rightly points out the need to mainstream our human rights and democracy support actions across all policies with an external dimension, such as development, migration, trade and neighbourhood policy. a more focused, systematic and coordinated use of our human rights instruments is thus essential. but just as essential is that the eu increase its credibility worldwide and lead by example in the area of democracy, human rights and respect for minorities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. human rights are currently under serious threat not only at eu level but also globally, either from authoritarian regimes, from the actions of entities restricting the space of civil society, or even from the attitudes and behaviour of people in general that undermine fundamental freedoms and human rights. the eu's policy in this regard, based on promoting the principles of its creation, must not only be integrated synergistically into all its policies (development policy, common security and defence policy, enlargement policy, migration policy, etc.), but also be internally and externally coherent. also, in order to increase the eu's effectiveness in protecting and promoting human rights and democratic principles worldwide, eu policy in this area must take into account the essence of the eu's annual reports, approached critically and constructively, by highlighting not only achievements but also challenges, constraints and even threats. moreover, it is imperative to define and implement a monitoring system to assess progress, including in the implementation of the action plan at member state level, based on dialogues and consultations with all stakeholders.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu) (2016/2036(ini)) (a8-0360/2016).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – thank you mr president, but first of all, elmar, thank you for this report but also thank you for all the work we have done in these two years. thank you for the wisdom, the competence, the passion you put into everything you do and also into this excellent report. thank you also for this debate, the third article 36 debate we have had this year, and as you know we are supposed to have at least two article 36 debates per year and we went further – this i believe is proof of the fact that we need to work more together on this, but also the intensity and the quality of our cooperation in this field. so thank you also for that, and thank you because your report follows not just the structure of the global strategy but also the spirit of the strategy. this report’s message on the european union as, i quote, ‘the largest economic power, the most generous donor of humanitarian and development assistance, and the front-runner in global multilateral diplomacy’, end quote, is exactly what we need in these times. to be a little bit more self-confident or at least aware of the instruments we have. the report describes a european union that is a superpower, a diplomatic superpower, but i’m glad that we are finally starting to realise our potential and our strength. it is so important that european institutions pass coherent messages in these complicated times, because we all see the challenges, we all see the threats, we also see the limits, but we must never forget our strengths. we must never forget that as a true union we are a global player and our unity holds the key to the security of our citizens, as you just said, and also of our partners. and since i’ve presented the global strategy on foreign and security policy, our work for a stronger union has moved on very concretely and very fast. so today i would like to update you on our main actions starting with those on security and defence that i will present on thursday, two days from now, to the european council, to our heads of state and government. when i presented this strategy i said that the implementation would have to begin in a matter of weeks and not in a matter of years, and by the end of this week exactly this package on security and defence will be presented. i will present it to the european council to give its endorsement to it but also its orientations on this defence package. it is a package based on three main ideas and three main documents. first idea and documents. our union can be made more secure through our external action, and this is the sense of the global strategy and its implementation plan on security and defence, that was already endorsed by the foreign and defence ministers in november. second, we need a stronger defence industry and to achieve this goal with the european commission we have put forward a european defence action plan. third, we need stronger cooperation with our partners and with this in mind the european union has signed an unprecedented joint declaration with nato. this package includes a number of concrete actions to make our defence spending more efficient and effective, to improve our rapid response to crises, for the joint planning and conduct of our missions, and for member states to explore the possibility of a permanent structured cooperation on defence matters. we need to address our citizens’ needs, not with endless ideological debates but with concrete decisions, so we are moving fast and with concrete steps towards a real european union of security and defence. but implementation of the global strategy is not simply about defence. greater integration on security cannot be and should not be a substitute for greater integration in other fields. i want to be very clear on this. we need much more in different fields of our policies for what relates my institutional competences, the second strand of implementation of the global strategy relates to the resilience of states and societies in our region and to an integrated approach to conflicts and crises. we are working now on a set of targeted actions to address the whole cycle of conflict and crisis, and on a joint communication on resilience to be presented by next spring. in the meantime, the strategy is already impacting on our new policy proposals: we have just discussed now the link between human rights and resilience, and how we are putting human rights at the centre of all our foreign policies. moreover, last month we presented our proposal for a new consensus on development which is 100% consistent with the approach of the strategy: for the first time ever, all european institutions can agree on a shared development policy, one common policy on development for the parliament, the commission, the council and each and every national government. if we finally manage to make full use of our different european and national instruments and at the same time to act as one single force, then our potential truly has no parallel in the world. implementation of the strategy also includes the revision of our sectoral and geographical strategies and a renewed and joint attention on public diplomacy. but let me just focus on two other strands of implementation before i conclude. one is the link between our internal and external policies, starting from migration. our external work on migration, in particular with the migration compacts, but not only, is proceeding along these lines and i will present the second progress report on the five migration compacts at the european council on thursday. last but not least, the work on global governance. it is extremely important and i know i can count on this chamber to work hand-in-hand on this. just yesterday my friend antónio guterres was sworn in as the new secretary-general of the united nations. our cooperation with ban ki-moon already has been really impressive and i would like to thank him for this. on all the current crises, from syria to libya, to the work we are doing in these very minutes and hours on aleppo, trying to guarantee the protection of civilians, all the current crises, all the work we do and also on all the global issues from sustainable development to climate change, the european union and the united nations are natural partners and we are working together on a daily basis. antónio’s mandate will provide us with an even greater opportunity to strengthen and reform the system of global governance. we are entering a phase of change for the united nations, this is an opportunity for our european union to be more and more present inside the un system with a more effective coordination among member states, and i think i can count on this chamber to support this approach as well. the last few years, despite all the crises and all the difficulties inside the united nations, we have also managed to show the incredible potential of a more cooperative global governance, from the deal on iran’s nuclear programme to the quartet report on the middle east, from the paris agreement on climate change to the sustainable development goals, the international community has delivered on many of the challenges it has faced. the european union has the duty and the interest to keep a reformed united nations at the core of the international system, and i know on this we can work together with this parliament. so let me also thank you, elmar, for your constant leadership, for your constant wisdom, for your constant passion in the work you have done as the chair of the foreign affairs committee. i know this is your last cfsp report as the afet chair, but i count personally on your commitment to a stronger european union, to continue to support the work we are doing to make the european union our union, a stronger actor as a force for multilateralism, for peace, for cooperation as a principled and responsible superpower.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i should like to begin by welcoming the ambitious report drawn up by our colleague, mr elmar brok, whose message is clear: we want a europe that is more present, more assertive, but above all more effective. it is time to focus on areas where we can make a difference, and respect for human rights and democracy must remain at the heart of our foreign policies more than ever. here are a few things that i think are essential: first, enlargement. we must not forget that the european council is the best instrument for stability on the european continent. europe's response to the various crises and the rise of populism must be openness, not withdrawal. i am thinking in particular of bosnia-herzegovina, for which i am the rapporteur. we must do everything we can to ensure the future of the country within the union. secondly, our crisis management capabilities in the neighbourhood, whether it is to the east with ukraine or to the south with syria or libya. the report stresses that the european union is a diplomatic superpower, which is true in theory, but we must be more present. that is why i believe the union can do more to resolve the syrian conflict instead of being just a humanitarian actor. another point i would like to make is the question of the strategic partners of which india is one. for this tool to be a real asset of our foreign policy, it must be rethought and revitalized. finally, there is the europe of defence. i hope that the heads of state will give a strategic boost to defence this thursday, with clear guidelines on the way forward. we need more commitment from member states, more cooperation and, above all, real civilian and military capability. the preparatory action on defence research, which my group has strongly supported, and the defence action plan presented by the commission are major steps forward. to get a seat at the big table, the union needs two things: strategic autonomy and deterrence.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will start by thanking elmar brok for his excellent report. it is a real piece of work, a real legacy to the european parliament and foreign affairs, security and defence. we are now in a period of unprecedented challenges for foreign policy, and with the election of donald trump in the usa, we also have ahead of us a situation of unprecedented uncertainty. this is happening at a time when we are confronted with multiple wars and, among other things, terrorism, migration, and the imperialistic attitude of russia and its propaganda. i should also mention equally its direct threat to the free and fair elections in some new member states and beyond. this gives even more importance to the role of the eu on the global scene. it is an opportunity, but also a challenge. we have to prove that we are capable of playing a leading role and a resolute one. we will be marginalised, and other global actors will prevail over us if we fail. in order to be influential, we need first and foremost unity and full support for the high representative and the global strategy. this is the only way we can make use of our leverage. the other important consequence following the elections of the new american president is that we also have uncertainty as to how the usa will now interpret their role in nato. this requires an even larger importance in the current international context. also, from this point of view, we should take the opportunity to intensify the role of eu member states within nato, and to enhance the process of a joint eu-nato agenda as was done after the nato summit in warsaw. this agenda must be based on complementarity, cooperation, coordination at the highest level of interoperability of our forces in the interest of collective defence. i very much welcome the steps already taken by the high representative, federica mogherini, and i only hope that this is just the starting point of much more consistent cooperation. it goes without saying that, in order to achieve these goals, we need to urgently strengthen and restructure our defence investments; not spending, but investments. i fear a simple coordination of investments is not enough. we have until today relied mostly on nato and particularly on the usa. now, the time has come to clearly identify our challenges and our needs and to take all the necessary actions in that direction while, at the same time, being proactive in the relations with the future challenges. i will conclude by saying that pooling and sharing has proved to be just close to nothing. we have to act for the security needs of all 27 member states today and in the future.
madam president, fukuyama was wrong. history did not end because the present brought back power politics to the international system, forcing the eu to readapt to this old type of politics. elmar brok’s report, being very complex and therefore comprehensive, an appropriate legacy i should say, compels us to be selective in the topics we address. consequently, i intend to address only two issues. the first is the popular support the eu is getting from its citizens. that support is indispensable for the functioning and future of our union, and the truth is that sometimes our adversaries communicate better with our citizens then we manage to do. but it is due to the easiness with which confusion and manipulation percolate in an environment with many alternative sources of information. paradoxically, the more sources of information we have, the less informed we are. and that is in part from the support provided to the eurosceptic parties on the extreme right and extreme left of the political spectrum. but it is partly due to our own making, to our strong belief, not always warranted, that the european citizens believe and follow automatically the eu leaders, and to the over-bureaucratisation of the eu’s relations with its citizens. and here i have a parenthesis to point to the new regulation concerning visitors here in this parliament. the second issue is the expected revision of the current arrangements regulating world trade today. already ttip is on ice and the ttp contemplates total scrapping. if that happens it will challenge the eu’s initial raison d’être, questioning its first achievement, namely its common commercial policy. imagine all those long decades of tough negotiations to provide the current institutional and legal platform for world trade becoming irrelevant or facing the perspective of becoming irrelevant overnight. where would that leave the eu? what would that mean to the eu power status?
mr president, in the context of the crisis in eastern ukraine, the full implementation of the minsk agreements can bring about a political solution, and everyone seems to agree. the russian side has a lot of work to do in this regard, but we should not forget the obligations of the ukrainian government. they agreed that at some point in the settlement - and of course it's a matter of debate when that will be - they will grant special status to the eastern ukrainian territories while preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. i see that we say little about this issue and sometimes we pretend that the minsk agreements only impose tasks on russia. without respect for and the guarantee of the rights of the minorities living in ukraine, there will be no stability in this country, which is in the interests of both the european union and russia. ensuring minority rights has always been a guarantee of long-term stability.
madam president, farmers throughout the european union are complaining that their incomes are falling and that the areas they are working on are shrinking sharply. during this time, production costs have increased considerably, driving up prices, with a heavy impact on both agricultural producers and consumers. in these circumstances, price volatility is particularly severe in the agricultural sector, which is vulnerable to fluctuations in domestic and external markets, global consumption trends and climate change. agricultural producers have difficulty managing these effects and national public authorities unfortunately do not make use of effective tools to correct imbalances in the markets. we therefore believe that the process of setting up and developing producer organisations and associations in the agricultural sectors needs to be strengthened in order to create their own production, processing, storage and marketing capacities. the negotiating power for medium and long-term contracts must also be increased, as must the facilitation of supply to supermarkets in what we call the short supply chain. at eu level, it is important to set up a forecasting unit to forecast production by sector and market absorption capacities so that farmers can effectively match demand with supply. the development of mutual funds in agriculture and of production insurance instruments is a real support for farmers in preventing price volatility and combating losses in this sector.
in writing. it is becoming increasingly clear that the instruments under the second pillar of the cap are not sufficient to combat the volatility of agricultural prices. as regards the current cap instruments, the latest available data show that they have been used by 12 member states to counter price volatility. in total, eur 2.7 billion of public expenditure was allocated (of which eur 1.7 billion came from rural development funds). unfortunately, although they have increased compared to the funds allocated to the previous cap system, these expenditures still represent only 0,4% of cap expenditure and less than 2% of expenditure under the second pillar. the european commission should, in the future cap reform, pay particular attention to market instruments and ensure stable and decent incomes for farmers.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, colleague, i personally appreciate the way you have presented your point of view in parliament, but two things have led me to ask you a question. do you know europe well? you said that young people can travel freely anyway. you think "youth" is just for londoners? do you know well the countries that have young people who can't afford to travel? second thing: if we can work together, as you said, how do you explain the decision of the united kingdom to leave the european union? what did you do, how did you explain europe to your home?
blue-card question. – you mentioned that we have to take action. in fact, the council is going to speak about migration, security issues, economic and social development, youth, external relations, russia and ukraine. do you not think that it is time that the european council, together with the european commission and the european parliament, should come with a new strategy, a new plan for a new beginning of the european union, in order to attract again european citizens’ support for this important pan-european project?
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency practitioners and insolvency proceedings in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. annex a lists the insolvency proceedings, while annex b is intended to specify the insolvency practitioners. regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings (recast) ((1)) entered into force on 26 june 2015 and was to apply from 26 june the following year. i have spoken in favour of this draft as i consider it to be an essential instrument in ensuring judicial cooperation in civil matters at european union level and this initiative will ensure that the scope of the reformed regulation is adapted, taking into account coherence with existing policy provisions and other union policies.
in writing. ‒ this regulation includes as annexes lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners relevant to its application. annex a to regulation (eu) 2015/848 lists the insolvency proceedings referred to in point (4) of article 2 of the regulation. annex b lists the insolvency practitioners referred to in point (5) of article 2. in december 2015, poland notified the commission on a substantial reform of its domestic law on restructuring, which would take effect as of 1 january 2016, and requested a modification of the lists set out in annexes a and b to the regulation accordingly. according to article 1(1), to point (4) of article 2 and to recital (9) of the regulation, national proceedings qualify as ‘insolvency proceedings’ in the context of the regulation only if they are listed in annex a thereto. the annexes to the regulation can be amended only by a regulation to be adopted following the ordinary legislative procedure under the legal base on which the original regulation was adopted, namely article 81 tfeu. therefore, i agree with the proposal of the commission and of the rapporteur. the proposal contains no substantive change to the regulation, except changes of purely technical nature.
in writing. ‒ across the eu companies and individuals are increasingly establishing business or economic interests in eu countries other than where they conduct their core activities. in case they become insolvent, there may be direct implications for the good functioning of the internal market. i have voted for this report that will replace the list of insolvency proceeding and insolvency practitioners.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, poland notified the european commission on a substantial reform of its domestic law on restructuring, which was to take effect as of 1 january 2016, and requested a modification of the lists set out in the annex lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. the annexes to the regulation can be amended only by a regulation to be adopted following the ordinary legislative procedure. after examining the request from poland, the commission submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation will be adjusted to the actual legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation by the time of its application. i support this report, as the commission’s proposal was of a purely technical nature.
madam president, uzbekistan, a staunch friend of russia, has just had a new president after 27 years of rule by the iron fist of president karimov. we know that the new president was the right hand of former president karimov. it seems that power is moving in uzbekistan from hand to hand - again with an iron fist. we want to encourage trade with uzbekistan through this report, but we must make that trade conditional on the democratization of the country. progress has been made, for example, in banning child labour (the exploitation of children through labour), but this is not enough. i repeat, trade along with democratization and human rights. all those who oppose the regime must be free to do so, through expression, through demonstrations, through all that democracy, civil and political rights mean.
in writing. ‒ the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, provides for the extension of the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. the protocol thus entails the inclusion of textile products in the partnership and cooperation agreement between uzbekistan and the european union. trade in goods will also apply to textiles, which implies trade without quantitative restrictions, respect for the principle of free movement, trade at market prices, a safeguard clause and prohibitions or limitations on imports and exports for reasons of public interest or public security. the human rights situation has improved markedly with regard to the use of child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest in uzbekistan. according to the international labour organisation's 2015 report, child labour in cotton harvesting has been abolished and a number of progress has been made and appropriate measures taken to eradicate forced labour among adults, which is why i voted in favour of this project.
in writing. ‒ the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, on the extension of the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textiles will bring economic benefits to both parties. this agreement also provides for trade without quantitative restrictions, the principle of free movement, and trade at market prices. results have been achieved in the eradication of child labour in the cotton harvest. we voted to implement these mutually beneficial exchanges, but also to move towards a healthier labor market, without the use of child or forced labor.
in writing. ‒ the death of president karimov earlier this year marks another turning point in the country’s history. new elections will soon take place but all signs point to a new willingness to cooperate constructively with the eu. however, as outlined in the accompanying resolution to the consent we call for the eeas to continue to monitor developments ensuring that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law are upheld and that more space for independent civil society is ensured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. we have seen fundamental changes in uzbekistan and the beginning of a new period of openness and cooperation. the eas should continue to monitor developments ensuring that fundamental rights and the rule of law are upheld.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this recommendation that will extend provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of uzbekistan regarding the inclusion of bilateral trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ the european union has consistently encouraged dialogue with the countries of central asia in recent years. uzbekistan is one of the leading states in the region, both in terms of population and economic development. the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement was concluded in 1999, which was an important milestone in the development of bilateral relations. in 2011, following a request for approval of a protocol amending the agreement to facilitate bilateral trade in textiles, the european parliament adopted an interim report of approval, subject to improvements in the human rights situation, in particular with regard to the use of child labour and forced labour in the cotton harvest. the dialogue with uzbekistan following this report included, in addition to the national authorities, civil society, european and international institutions (international labour organisation). today, according to the latest monitoring reports, child labor in cotton harvesting has been completely eradicated, and the use of child labor has become an isolated phenomenon in other fields. however, with regard to forced labour, there is still a significant effort to be made to change the situation on the ground towards the application of international conventions in this field. the uzbek authorities have committed to intensify the fight against this practice. in these circumstances, i support the adoption of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, provides for the extension of the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. the protocol thus entails the inclusion of textile products in the partnership and cooperation agreement between uzbekistan and the european union. the human rights situation has improved markedly with regard to the use of child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest in uzbekistan. according to the international labour organisation's 2015 report, child labour in cotton harvesting has been abolished and progress has been made and appropriate measures taken to eradicate forced labour among adults. i welcome the efforts made to respect human rights and to abolish child and forced labour. the textile sector is the main area of trade between the union and uzbekistan, and i therefore consider this resolution to be an appropriate one with a view to extending and strengthening relations between the two partners, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we expect immediate action to forbid the use of systematic forced child labour. following this, uzbekistan has slowly but surely cooperated with not only the eu, but the ilo – allowing an unhindered inspection of the cotton harvest to take place for the last three years. this is a success for our trade policy. thanks to demands laid down by our group, we have seen fundamental changes in uzbekistan, doing away with child and forced labour and ushering in a new period of openness and cooperation. we want to build on this to strengthen civil society.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report that will extend provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of uzbekistan regarding the inclusion of bilateral trade in textiles.
madam president, ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is an important step in bilateral relations with ecuador. trade will be opened up on both sides and this is a benefit for the european agricultural sector. the timing of this agreement is crucial, because ecuador is facing a difficult economic situation. the price of oil has plummeted by over 60%, oil exports have fallen by 50%, and the april earthquake cost the government $3 billion. furthermore, at the end of the year, ecuador loses its gsp status. it is essential that parliament support this agreement, so that ecuador's economy is not severely affected. ecuador is a very important regional partner for the union and that is why we stand by this agreement and voted for it. i also ask that we regularly monitor existing agreements.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012, with the possibility of accession to this agreement by other andean community member states. the european union and ecuador have therefore concluded negotiations with a view to such accession. this agreement would allow ecuador to strengthen its new guidelines on the promotion of sustainable economic and social development policies. the implementation of the trade agreement will thus have a positive impact on ecuador's development and alignment with european standards. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will help to strengthen bilateral relations and political dialogue based on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the european parliament encouraged the entry into force and full implementation of this agreement without delay, considering that this would allow ecuador to continue its new guidelines aimed at stimulating the country's sustainable economic and social development policies in a complicated regional and international context. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the export prices of the product concerned to the union. i voted for ecuador's accession to this trade agreement, an agreement that will help the sustainable development of all parties involved in a region that is increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific.
in writing. ‒ i support the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as it will open up markets and increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries and regions. the agreement will provide improved access to the ecuadorian market for many key eu exports, for example in the automotive sector or for alcoholic beverages. however, the agreement will not only secure access to markets; more importantly, it will also create a stable and predictable environment that will help boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol establishing the necessary amendments to the eu trade agreement with colombia and peru to take account of the accession of ecuador. the eu and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014, but due to trade-related problems between ecuador and colombia/peru, the accession protocol was only approved by the trade policy council on 8 february 2016.
in writing. ‒ on 26 june 2012, the trade agreement between the eu, on the one side, and colombia and peru on the other, was signed. i have voted for this recommendation to take into consideration the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main supporters of free trade worldwide. in this context, the eu has in recent years concluded a number of free trade agreements with certain countries in the world with which it shares common economic interests. colombia and peru are two of those countries with which the commission signed those agreements in 2012, documents approved by the european parliament. also in november 2015, the parliament adopted a resolution on ecuador's accession to this trade agreement, which would allow the andean country to manage a complicated regional and international context, including the fall in the price of oil, the appreciation of the us dollar, the fall in total exports by 29% and insufficient revenues for the government in quito. moreover, on 16 april 2016, an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.8 struck ecuador, resulting in 673 deaths and 27 732 injuries. after 31 december 2016, following the amendment of the eu regulation, ecuador will lose gsp+ status. in these circumstances, it is necessary for this country to join the eu free trade agreement with colombia and peru, which would alleviate ecuador's economic problems and help increase trade with this important region of the world. i consider that the recommendation should be adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu trade agreement with colombia and peru (ecuador's accession). the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012 and a number of its provisions have been implemented. this trade agreement provides for the possibility of accession of other andean community member countries. on 17 july 2014, the european union and ecuador concluded negotiations with a view to such accession. the rapporteur recommended that parliament approve the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. the report underlines that monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of existing agreements must be a key priority of the common commercial policy and that the commission has an obligation to inform parliament about its activities related to the implementation, monitoring and follow-up of this agreement, in particular with regard to the sustainable development obligations as set out in the european parliament's resolution of 20 november 2015.
in writing. ‒ the 1966 agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat and the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway provide for reciprocal access between the three countries to fish up to 4 nautical miles from their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. the existing agreement has been considered as being inconsistent with the current provisions of the law of the sea, given the more recent developments in international fisheries law and in particular with the introduction of the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea. norway has therefore expressed concern about the control provisions, but also about the conservation and management principles, which no longer correspond to current needs. the present project thus aims to support historical fishing rights in this area and at the same time to ensure an efficient and sustainable fish stock management system, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ there has been an agreement between denmark, norway and sweden since 1966 on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat. in view of the more recent developments in international fisheries law, norway considered that the existing agreement is not in line with the current provisions of the law of the sea. it is particularly concerned with the control provisions. this new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to each other by vessels from denmark, norway and sweden, while ensuring effective conservation and management measures in the fisheries sector. we voted to respect the historic right to fish in these waters, even though only two of these countries have become eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles from the baselines. it ensures continued reciprocal access for the two member states and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, whilst at the same time ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. furthermore, it allows for control measures in harmony with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea. i fully support this agreement, which is in conformity with the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement, with unclos and with the objectives of the cfp. it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to ensure reciprocal access to the skagerrak for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of living resources. the report emphasises that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that, in the case of norway, any customs duties on food products, including fishery products from the eu, must be in accordance with the agreement on the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ on 7 august 1967, an agreement on reciprocal fishing access in the skagerrak area between denmark, norway and sweden entered into force. following denmark’s and sweden’s accession to the eu, the commission became responsible for the management of this agreement on behalf of these two member states. i have voted for this recommendation regarding the renewal of this agreement.
in writing. the european union institutions have taken over the role of regulating fishing areas on behalf of the member states following the application of the provisions of the common fisheries policy. such an area is also the skagerrak and kattegat straits between the north sea and the baltic sea. in that area there is a historical tradition of joint fishing between danish, swedish and norwegian fishermen, which led to the adoption of the 1966 agreement between the three countries on reciprocal access to fishing up to 4 nautical miles from the baselines, following the principle of the high seas. the denunciation of this agreement by norway in 2012, on the basis of the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement, led to the launch of formal negotiations between the commission and the norwegian state to establish a replacement agreement. the new agreement was initialled in october 2013 and signed in january 2015 and provides for reciprocal access for vessels of the three countries to the skagerrak area, ensuring effective conservation and management measures in the fisheries sector, but also control measures in line with the principles of normal coastal jurisdiction. i support the adoption of the current parliament recommendation, which lays the foundations for the normalisation of the fishing situation in the area.
in writing. ‒ the 1966 agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak and kattegat and the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and norway provide for reciprocal access between the three countries to fish up to 4 nautical miles from their baselines in the skagerrak and kattegat. the existing agreement has been considered as being inconsistent with the current provisions of the law of the sea, given the more recent developments in international fisheries law and in particular with the introduction of the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea. norway has therefore expressed concern about the control provisions, but also about the conservation and management principles which no longer correspond to current needs. the present project thus aims to support historical fishing rights in this area and at the same time to ensure an efficient and sustainable fish stock management system, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles from the baselines. it ensures continued reciprocal access for the two member states and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, whilst at the same time ensuring sound conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. furthermore, it allows for control measures in harmony with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea. i fully support this agreement, which is in conformity with the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement, with unclos and with the objectives of the cfp. it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which is in line with the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement, unclos and the objectives of the cfp. this agreement ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of living resources in the skagerrak. the new agreement maintains the exclusive access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to the waters of the other party beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. it ensures continued reciprocal access for the two member states and norway to each other's respective waters in the skagerrak area, thereby ensuring sound conservation and management measures for the fisheries in the area.
in writing. ‒ on 7 august 1967, an agreement on reciprocal fishing access in the skagerrak and kattegat areas between denmark, norway and sweden entered into force. following denmark’s and sweden’s accession to the eu, the commission became responsible for the management of this agreement on behalf of these two member states. i have voted for this report regarding the renewal of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol envisages the establishment of a cooperative relationship for the exchange of information, including personal data. the information may also be in the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support in certain criminal investigations. given the importance of georgia in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as a country of transit for so-called foreign fighters and as a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups in georgia, there is a need to deepen operational cooperation with georgia. i have spoken in favour of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement between georgia and europol because i consider it to be an essential instrument in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its operational cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgia is increasingly relevant in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, being a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised crime groups in georgia. i voted for the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information between europol and georgia, for a more effective fight against organised crime, which by definition has an international character.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol which concerns the proposal to approve an operational and strategic agreement between the two. this report shall provide for the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data. the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would thus support and intensify the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ europol has its headquarters in the netherlands offering assistance to the 28 member states of the eu in their fight against serious crimes and terrorism. i have voted for this report regarding the operational cooperation between europol and georgia in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, taking into consideration that georgia is a transit country for many so-called foreign fighters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider global cooperation and the intensification of action between states and international organisations to combat organised crime to be objectives of the utmost importance for the european union and its partners. the events of the last few years have shown us that the lack of communication between the structures in charge of our security has led to regrettable incidents and the loss of thousands of lives. the report adopted today thus endorses the strategic cooperation between georgia and europol, which enhances the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information for the purpose of preventing and combating crime, while also creating the framework for cooperation in the fight against terrorism, which is being carried out by an increasing number of states.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years set itself the objective of combating and eradicating negative phenomena such as terrorism, cross-border organised crime, trafficking in arms, people and drugs, and other illegal activities. the task of achieving this objective lies with europol, the specialised union agency whose role has increased significantly in recent years. in order to carry out its activities as efficiently as possible, europol has concluded a number of operational and strategic cooperation agreements with certain states with which the union has privileged relations, agreements to facilitate cooperation between the specialised agencies of both parties, including the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. georgia is a key partner of the eu in the eastern partnership, has signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the union and has made significant progress in the adoption of european legislation in all areas. the signing of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia constitutes an important step towards strengthening cooperation between the two parties, which will also have a positive influence on facilitating the mobility of european and georgian citizens. i believe that this is a welcome agreement, the adoption of which will help to strengthen the strategic relationship between the eu and georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the ep report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the rapporteur states that this concerns the proposal to approve an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia, which provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and assistance in certain criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund plays a key role in supporting workers affected by structural changes in world trade practices. in the present case, the european adjustment fund was requested by spain to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal sa. the factors triggering these redundancies occurred against the background of the decrease in vehicle production in the european union. therefore, bosal took a number of actions to reduce its costs and adapt its production capacity, but these proved to be insufficient. by mobilising this fund, workers will benefit from various active labour market measures such as: vocational guidance services, job search facilitation, integrated training, job search and training allowances. i voted in favour of this request because i believe it is necessary to support workers who have been made redundant for external reasons through various forms of facilitating their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 250 redundancies of the enterprise bosal s.a. in the town sagunto in spain, operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) during the reference period from 30 june 2015 to 30 march 2016. the egf funding of eur 856 800 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for 250 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies in the nuts level 2 regions of comunidad valenciana (es52), with the aim of providing assistance for integrating the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the tenth mobilisation of the egf in 2016. together with the other egf cases eur 28 million have been mobilised under egf in 2016 so far, which leaves a remainder of eur 137,6 million this year.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by restructuring worldwide as a result of the economic crisis. the application from spain for a contribution from the egf of eur 856 800 for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in bosal sa in sagunto has been accepted by the european commission. i voted in favour of this report which contributes to the access to a coordinated package of eligible personalised services and to the provision of assistance to 250 targeted beneficiaries following redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the mobilization of the european globalization adjustment fund that will help 250 workers made redundant in spain. the fund will provide eur 856 800 to help implement the egf measures such as labour market services, work practice, debt counselling, psychological counselling, study allowance relating to the participants in formal studies, mobility allowance, training cost reimbursement and support for formal studies.
in writing. ‒ i give my approval to use eur 856 800 from the european globalisation fund for spain, specifically in the comunidad valenciana region and the town of sagunto. from the 30 june 2015 to 30 march 2016, 250 people have been made redundant from bosal s.a., a manufacturer of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the money will be used to help integrate the affected people back into the labour market. i support this report.
madam president, rail transport in europe has changed, railway companies can provide services throughout the union. the high-speed rail network has expanded very rapidly to the benefit of economies and, of course, to the benefit of citizens. fifty years ago, the alternative was between air and rail, but today, fortunately, we have a variety of options for rail transport. the 1969 infrastructure management regulation has become incompatible with union law. i therefore support a liberalised market in which all companies use and are obliged to apply the same rules, but in a competitive environment. it is also necessary to have fair competition between railway undertakings, precisely to facilitate the entry of new firms into the rail transport market.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the establishment of a single european railway area and the opening of the domestic rail passenger market to competition. it is clear that there is still need for a transitional period regarding the compensations paid for level crossing facilities due to the fact that some member states still use this regulation as a basis for level crossing facilities compensations. in future, member states may continue to pay compensation for the costs of those facilities. they may, nevertheless, need time to amend their national law and administrative provisions to take account of the repeal of regulation. concerning the domestic passenger transport services by rail (pso) regulation, i believe there is a need to strengthen the social protection in the new regulation, and that we must keep fighting for transport workers rights and jobs protection.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the recommendation on the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this recommendation for the adoption of the regulation on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings and the repeal of the old one, as it needed to be adapted to the new realities on the eu market. the provisions of the old regulation were in contradiction with the new legislation adopted by the fourth railway package, as it allowed member states to subsidize certain costs specific to rail transport for a number of 40 companies. in the absence of repeal of these provisions, the allocation of these subsidies will favour certain companies and railway companies will have an advantage over other means of transport, which is contrary to eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for the repeal of regulation 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings will allow member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations that undertakings of other transport modes do not have to support. this will take place gradually, which is necessary due the fact that some countries still use this regulation as a basis for level crossing facilities compensations. in the future, member states may continue to pay compensation for the costs of those facilities and may need time to amend their national law and administrative provisions to take account of the repeal of regulation 1192/69.
madam president, as i said, rail transport is no longer limited to the member states, but ensures the connectivity of the union. regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 concerns the award of public service contracts for rail transport. it is necessary to ensure effective community rules for the award of such contracts and for public procurement procedures in the field of transport. we have all heard many times about rigged auctions, contracts given to certain companies, and this practice must stop. all railway undertakings must comply with the same quality and social standards imposed by the national authorities. so member states must make efforts to ensure transparency in public procurement, few, clear and transparent rules. in these conditions, corruption or fraud is very difficult to intervene, and the costs of these contracts are much reduced, to the benefit of the citizen.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this package is to reform the rail sector by encouraging competition and innovation in the internal markets for passenger transport, by implementing a series of structural measures. i believe that the report encourages countries like romania to reform the railway system, whose competitiveness is being affected.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the establishment of a single european railway area and the opening of the domestic rail passenger market to competition. it is clear that there is still need for a transitional period regarding the compensations paid for level crossing facilities due to the fact that some member states still use this regulation as a basis for level crossing facilities compensation. in future, member states may continue to pay compensation for the costs of those facilities. they may, nevertheless, need time to amend their national law and administrative provisions to take account of the repeal of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to return the text of regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for domestic rail passenger services to the council because the essential amendment on the protection of public sector workers was not included. the appropriate protection of public sector workers is of particular importance. public service operators must comply with applicable obligations in the field of social and labour law established by union law, national legislation or collective agreements. directive 2001/23/ec on the transfer of undertakings applies to the change of public service operators where such a change constitutes a transfer of undertaking within the meaning of that directive. in order to achieve the overall objective of the commission's proposal to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to boost their operational efficiency, the commission proposed the introduction of mandatory competitive procedures for the award of public service contracts with the aim of increasing competitive pressure on national rail markets, but all these measures must respect social protection rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation because the rights of transport workers and the protection of jobs are not respected in respect of rail passenger services in the internal market (ipm). nor is there any desire to harmonise social protection at european level. at this point, the council is not prepared to introduce more social protection for public transport workers, so this option remains in the hands of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the 4th railway package will create a more competitive rail sector by encouraging competition and innovation in domestic passenger markets while meeting the targets to reduce emissions. i have voted for this recommendation regarding opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail.
in writing. ‒ i support this recommendation for the adoption of the regulation on the opening of the market for domestic passenger rail transport services, as it aims to stimulate competition on the european market and improve services. this regulation is part of the fourth railway package and i believe that the introduction of, inter alia, mandatory competitive procedures for the award of service contracts will help to achieve the general objectives. i also think it is important to stress that by adopting this package, rail passenger services will be an alternative to other types of passenger transport services, which are less cost-effective and have a lower environmental impact.
in writing. ‒ domestic rail passenger transport is important from a social point of view, but also from the point of view of the environment, individual mobility and passenger safety. the transformation of domestic rail passenger transport into a modern eu industry can be made possible by the cooperation of member states in the realisation of the single european railway area, using railway models that have already proven their effectiveness within the community. at national level, the central role of the organisation of domestic rail passenger services clearly falls to the competent authorities, which must fulfil their policy objectives regarding public passenger transport within their territory. multimodal public transport plans shall be sustainable, coherent and efficient so as to provide quality and efficient rail transport services in a cost-effective manner, in accordance with the criteria of punctuality, cost-effectiveness, frequency of services, customer satisfaction, quality of rolling stock and modal sharing of public transport. i agree that public service operators must comply with certain social standards, specifications and public service contracts, where required by the competent authorities, providing details of the contractual rights of staff and the conditions under which employees are considered to be linked to the services concerned.
in writing. ‒ overall, the public service regulations lay the foundations for a dynamic and efficient railway system which, in the long term, will be able to ensure the competitiveness of this mode of transport in relation to road transport. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013. however, it is important that efforts to reform the railway system do not erode the social rights of railway workers. the social dimension of this regulation is indispensable for a functioning transport system, which obliges the european institutions to try to provide safeguards for workers' rights in situations where there is a change of operators.
madam president, this is the last report in today's rail transport package. in fact, in this last report we are talking about a single european railway area and the privatisation of rail transport. of course, this means much more mobility for citizens and products, it means competition, it means respecting the same rules and it means a start of rapprochement between member states where rail transport, infrastructure and equipment are old and need to be reformed. we rely on this in several countries, including romania, because in this single market we have to be on the same level as other countries where the railways are of quality, they are fast. this unique area will hopefully reach countries where the rail infrastructure is old and needs to be replaced and will bring benefits and funds.
in writing. ‒ i consider it necessary to open up the market for domestic rail passenger services, the main objective of which is to increase competitive pressure on national rail markets, thereby increasing the quantity and improving the quality of transport services.
in writing. ‒ i strongly welcome the establishment of a single european railway area and the opening of the domestic rail passenger market to competition. it is clear that there is still need for a transitional period regarding the compensations paid for level crossing facilities, due to the fact that some member states still use this regulation as a basis for level crossing facility compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation on the council's first reading position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger rail transport services and the governance of railway infrastructure as this should increase the level of competition, ensure financial transparency and fair financing conditions. equal market access and the increasing number of operators should also ultimately generate new business and increased traffic. increasing competition and specialisation of market players should have a positive effect on productivity and efficiency, leading to increased investment in rail transport infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this recommendation regarding the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this recommendation for the adoption of the text of the directive on the opening of the internal market for rail transport services, as it represents a step forward for the european market. this directive aims to increase competition in the rail transport markets of the member states, which will mean better services and lower prices. another objective of this directive is to strengthen the governance of infrastructure managers, which will lead to better access to infrastructure for more transport companies and reduce non-competitive arrangements where the infrastructure manager and one of the carriers are in an integrated system.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the single european railway area implies the opening of the market for domestic rail passenger services and the governance of rail infrastructure, which contributes to the competitiveness, (financial) transparency, competition, quality and efficiency of public funding of rail passenger services, of course for the benefit of passengers. as a result of increased competition, the attractiveness of the railway sector should generate increased investment in the railway sector, including in human resources, as well as in the diversification and quality of rail passenger services, and the management of railway infrastructure and rail services by entities that are legally, functionally and decision-making different should ensure at least equal access to infrastructure, consistency in the management of the functions of infrastructure managers and coordination between infrastructure managers and railway operators, which is rather difficult to achieve. the governance of railway undertakings implies not only ensuring social standards and improving the quality of railway services, but above all taking social responsibility towards all stakeholders. in this context, it is clear that the completion of the opening of the union rail market does not make rail transport a credible and viable alternative, from the point of view of quality and price, to other modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ the overall aim of the directive is to build a railway single market area which would translate into more opportunities for passengers as well as an increase in the use of this transport mode in relations to others. to this end, the ep was instrumental in ensuring the impartiality and independence of the infrastructure managers. safeguards have been put in place to ensure the impartiality and independence of the infrastructure manager, and member states should put in place a national framework for the assessment of conflicts of interest. the powers of the regulatory bodies were reinforced and a cooperation mechanism was established as regards the coordination of the decisions of two or more regulatory bodies concerning international rail services or bi-national infrastructure.
madam president, i support the effective and fair application of european laws on competition and increased transparency in financial relations between member states, ports and port operators. the selection procedure for port service providers must be open to all interested parties and the content and outcome of these procedures must be made public hence transparency and fairness in public procurement. in addition, port service charges and charges for the use of port infrastructure must be proportionate to the economic value of the services provided and not disproportionate or discriminatory. and finally, let us not forget that the big problem in many of the ports of the european union is trafficking: drug trafficking, human trafficking and other forms of trafficking. this must be the number one priority if we are to talk about transport and access to port services.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to create a framework to improve port performance and transition transport and logistics requirements, necessary to achieve a more efficient and sustainable operation of the ten-t. these changes require modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract new investors. the main condition for fair competition between ports is the creation of a clear framework on state aid rules, but also on the white paper on transport, as well as the connecting europe facility and the blue belt initiative. in conclusion, autonomy is required for the management body to act in accordance with its economic strategy while also respecting certain key principles. i voted in favour of the report on market access for port services and financial transparency of ports because i encourage financial transparency but at the same time port autonomy to be able to manage the administration of each port efficiently, an administration that brings an economic plus through economic competition generated by the need for development, competition beneficial both to the eu and to the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to contribute to the objective of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports and help them cope with changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives are to modernise port services and operations and to create framework conditions for attracting investment in ports, without going beyond fair competition between them. i voted for greater autonomy for port authorities to allow them to act in accordance with their economic strategy, while respecting certain key principles.
in writing. ‒ this agreement sets a framework that should boost the efficiency and strengthen competitiveness of maritime ports of the trans-european transport network, taking into account the specific situation of ports located in outermost regions. i believe it is fundamental to preserve the various organisation models in the union, while allowing authorities or port managing bodies to set minimum requirements for performing port services or limiting the number of service providers. after two unsuccessful attempts to adopt a regulation on port services, the parliament, thanks to our rapporteur knut fleckenstein, is now on its way to success on its third attempt. this regulation will provide stability and legal certainty for the whole sector for the next decades, assuring growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i believe that the rapporteur has improved some aspects of the commission's proposal. the report stresses the need for the port management body to have autonomy to act in accordance with its economic strategy, while respecting certain key principles. in addition, the rapporteur shall avoid an increase in the administrative burden of applying this regulation. in conclusion, this regulation should create legal certainty for ports and have a positive impact on the functioning of the ten-t network. fair competition between ports in a level playing field is essential. the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions for attracting investment in ports are also important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which states that this regulation should create legal certainty for ports and have a positive impact on the functioning of the ten-t network. the main objectives of this report include the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions for attracting investment in ports. this proposal is consistent with important eu policies and objectives such as the transport white paper, the connecting europe facility and the blue belt initiative.
in writing. ‒ the trans-european transport network supports the construction and upgrade of transport infrastructure across the european union. i have voted for this report that will modernise port services and operations and create framework conditions that will attract investments in ports.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report brings substantial improvements to the commission's proposal for a regulation on market access to port services and financial transparency. it is important that this regulation fosters competitiveness between ports, ensures fair competition between them and that the services offered are continuously upgraded and improved. in this respect, i believe that both the commission's proposal, which meets these objectives, and this report, which improves on the original text, will boost the european union's ports to become more efficient, more competitive and more innovative.
in writing. ‒ this regulation will provide stability and legal certainty for the whole sector for the next decades, ensuring growth and job creation. the new framework should boost the efficiency and strengthen competitiveness of maritime ports of the trans-european transport network, whilst taking into account the specific situation of ports located in outermost regions. the agreed text provides that social and labour rules would not be affected by the regulation and that port workers should receive adequate information about their working conditions. it also invites the eu-level sectoral social dialogue committee for ports to develop guidelines regarding training requirements to prevent accidents and ensure the highest level of safety and health for port workers. furthermore, the report secures the right to strike, stating that industrial action does not constitute grounds for taking emergency measures the regulation also approved financial transparency provisions that would ensure fair competition and prevent price abuse, in particular when services are not subject to effective competition.
in writing. ‒ i delivered a favourable opinion on the council’s nomination of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors, whose experience of work and life to date fully meet the requirements applicable to members of the eca.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the nomination of a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ for a longer period, the eu provided support for coal and steel research, which began with the signing of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, and, after the expiry of the treaty, the activity passed under a research fund managed by the commission. the research fund is complementary to, but managed outside of, horizon 2020, providing around €50 million annually to finance research, development and innovation in both the steel and coal sectors, bringing together industrial partners, smes, major research centres and universities from across the eu to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector. i voted in favour of the report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel because i believe that it is very beneficial to develop research and innovation in these eu sectors.
in writing. ‒ for more than 50 years, the eu has supported coal and steel research. this practice started with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, signed in 1951. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and workplace safety in relevant sectors. i voted for easing access to funding and for full transparency of the programme.
in writing. ‒ i supported this initiative of the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs), which is complementary to horizon 2020 and is managed by the commission. it provides funding for research, development and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors (72,8% of the funds are allocated to the steel sector and 27,2% to the coal sector) with approximately eur 50 million per year. steps were taken to extend the scope of r & d activities by adding the study of the social impact of restructuring and closure of mines in the coal and metal industry.
in writing. i voted for the report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel because, at this time and in view of the energy market situation, it is important to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and a proportionate alignment with the horizon 2020 rules. i stress the importance of the continuity of this fund based on the former treaty of the european coal and steel community, which provides some eur 50 million a year for research and innovation in the coal and steel sectors. this financial instrument should be used to find solutions for the modernisation of energy technologies in the coal and steel sectors and the improvement of energy efficiency, especially in eu member states with limited budgets and dependent on coal mining. last but not least, i ask the commission to manage this fund in accordance with the transparency rules on expert groups and to update as a matter of urgency the provisions on its legal basis.
in writing. ‒ the research fund for coal and steel was created in 2002, offering funding of over €50 million per year to innovative projects that enhance the safety and efficiency of the eu coal and steel industries. i have voted for his report regarding the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guideline for this programme.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal which i support is to amend the legal base after the periodical assessment of its management rules, with a view to implementing the objectives of facilitating access to funding, ensuring due transparency and alignment with the commission’s rules on expert groups. this report raised important questions related to the social impact of restructuring and closing down of mines in the coal industry, as well as the evaluation of possible new support facilities to manage labour market transitions. i believe it is very important to assess the impact on employment of workers and local communities of emissions reduction and energy consumption. the debate should stay open on these issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the council proposal on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. according to the rapporteur, for more than 50 years the eu has supported coal and steel research, starting with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc, signed in 1951). according to the commission, the purpose of this proposal is to amend the legal basis after periodic evaluation of the rules for its management in order to achieve the following objectives: to facilitate access to funding by means of simplified rules; to ensure that the programme is managed by the commission with the necessary transparency, respecting the commission's rules on expert groups. i appreciate the rapporteur's critical spirit, who notes that he is not fully convinced that aligning the rfcs rules with those of horizon 2020 requires changing the legal basis. according to him, this proposal was published only a few weeks before the commission published the updated horizontal rules on this issue, the rapporteur being concerned about the future implications that the updating of the rules could have on this proposal on rfcs.
in writing. ‒ the european union is committed to a common foreign and security policy guided by the principles which led to the union's creation and which it must pursue and promote globally, such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, the indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. the european union's relations with the rest of the international communities also serve to affirm and promote values and interests, but also contribute to the protection of citizens, peace, security and sustainable development of the planet, solidarity and respect among peoples, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and human protection, but in particular to the protection of the rights of the child and the development of international law. i voted in favour of the report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on this because i believe that in order to maintain peace in the world and prosperity among peoples, human rights must be respected and democracy must be accessible to all parties directly involved.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is at the heart of european values and is enshrined in the eu's legal and political framework, as well as being a central principle in the un's 2030 agenda. in this context, i consider the eu's commitment to mainstreaming human rights and gender issues in common security and defence policy missions on women, peace and security to be essential, with women considered a central component of all efforts to address global challenges. in this regard, the european union should support the international recognition of the added value of women's participation in conflict prevention and resolution, as well as in peacekeeping operations, humanitarian assistance and post-conflict reconstruction.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which addresses fundamental issues and strongly condemns the lack of humanity shown on european borders. social inclusion and integration of migrants and refugees and the granting of international protection in the host society is part of a dynamic and multi-dimensional process, in which the respect for european values must be a priority. i support the call on member states to apply integration policies as swiftly as possible and with adequate dedicated resources, and to develop them in cooperation with national institutions, local governments, schools, ngos, as well as migrants and refugee communities. it is important to consider that that access to education is one of the foundations for the integration of refugees. we will continue fighting for the principles of decency and equality, and will not accept any form of discrimination in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to protect human rights around the world, to assess how they are affected by counter-terrorism, trade or development measures. this topic is becoming sensitive in the context of migration, which is why urgent long-term measures and coherent human rights solutions are needed. this is an attempt to prevent human rights violations, especially in the current context of refugees, illegal migrants and asylum seekers. the report stresses that human rights clauses should be systematically introduced into all international agreements and that the business community must play an important role in promoting human rights and democracy in the world.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report on the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu’s policy on this matter. the report reveals concerns regarding the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a comprehensive and realistic document on the most important developments in the world and in the eu on human rights. unfortunately, the day-to-day reality, and the content of this report, does not give me the impression that the overall situation is improving. in fact, we are witnessing a clear deterioration in the situation of universal human rights in many parts of the world. more than ever, the european union needs to be coherent in its external action, and this means much more coherence between the member states, the eeas and the council. at the same time, as i have said repeatedly, to be respected by our external partners, we must show tolerance and openness in the dialogues and relationships we have with the various cultures and civilizations of this world, and in certain situations, listen to all the arguments presented before we catalogue.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s human rights annual report is an assessment of the situation on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015 that i support. after having analysed the report, one can say that the universality of human rights is seriously being challenged in many parts of the world and that the eu should ensure coherence between its internal and external policies with regard to respect for human rights. there are more and more human rights breaches and violations every day. we need a common approach and concrete implementation in practice by utilising all instruments available for human right protection. i also support taking stock regularly of the human rights of women and children, migrants, ethnic minorities, refugees etc., and starting to take action on these so as to prevent gross abuse and stop the wide violation of human rights around the world.
mr president, the union is facing unprecedented situations, including interstate conflict, cyber insecurity and proxy wars. we're dealing with a more hostile russia than ever. russian propaganda is trying to undermine the unity in the european union, the trust in the european union, in the form of disinformation campaigns and by supporting extremist groups. as regards the disinformation campaign, i would like to remind you that for two years now the russian federation has been buying television and radio licences in former communist states and will broadcast - in some it already does - in the language of that country, just as, during the communist era, the bbc and radio free europe broadcast in the language of our countries precisely to keep us informed. so now, basically, the russian federation wants to replace the good that the bbc and free europe have brought, but this time with evil. the union's external action must be based on three pillars defence, development and diplomacy and i agree with the creation of a permanent civilian and military command and a defence fund, but not at the expense of nato, in parallel.
in writing. ‒ the eu is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapses, hybrid threats, terrorism, climate change, organised crime, energy and cyber insecurity, and the eu will only be able to respond effectively to new challenges if its structures and member states cooperate in a joint and truly coordinated effort in the cfsp/cfsp context. the eu is currently surrounded by an arc of instability due to large parts of the middle east and north africa being embroiled in ethno-religious conflicts and the emergence of proxy wars, the terrorist groups isis and jabhat fateh al-sham front proliferating across the region, and the security vacuum in the middle east and north africa being exploited by the terrorist groups al-qaeda. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu) because it is necessary to strengthen the security of the european union and of the neighbouring states in order to combat and prevent terrorist attacks and, at the same time, to combat the stability of terrorist groups.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges and will only be able to respond effectively if its structures, as well as those of the member states, cooperate in a joint and truly coordinated effort. these conflicts have direct and serious consequences for the security and well-being of european citizens. the european union must strengthen its security and defence capabilities, as it can only use its full potential as a world power if it combines its unquestionable non-coercive power with coercive power. the eu must play a more active role in the field of disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. i voted for strengthening the role of the national parliament in implementing the common foreign and security policy. the eu has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and neighbouring countries, and this must continue.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that in the report we managed to avoid unnecessary duplication of condemnations, while preserving the strong message of deep concern about russia's aggressive policies and supporting measures the eu takes in strengthening its resilience in the face of this challenge. on transatlantic relations, a necessity for values-based cooperation with the us is emphasised. moreover, i welcome the focus on the importance of respecting the eu arms exports controls, for example by refraining from selling arms to countries that do not fulfil criteria to be eligible under the eu common position on arms trade. at a time of unprecedented geopolitical challenges to the eu, a deeper integration, including building a defence union and maximising the union's diplomatic clout, and strengthening resilience through an array of available political, economic, military and humanitarian tools, is a key to the eu's survival as an influential international actor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which advocates deeper integration, the building of a diplomatic defence union and the strengthening of resistance through a range of available political, economic, military and humanitarian instruments.
in writing. ‒ eu member states have committed themselves to the common foreign security policy, which represents the organised and agreed foreign policy of the eu for security and defence actions and diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy because i believe that it is increasingly necessary for the eu to respond in a coherent way to all the security changes and threats that are taking place. to this end, the eu must implement a common strategy on foreign policy and coordination. as regards security policy, together with foreign policy, it must be integrated, adapted to new challenges and providing member states with the capacity to protect their citizens against threats to their personal security, while also possessing the necessary adaptability to possible future changes on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a significant international actor, which aims to have a major positive impact on developments in various parts of the world. in this respect, the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is the instrument by which the union seeks to achieve its external objectives. recent events have posed a challenge to the cfsp and the eu's response capacity. these include brexit, the election of donald trump as president of the united states, threats from the union's southern and eastern borders, russia's aggressive action in the eu's neighbourhood and the actions of islamic extremist groups. to counter these threats, the eu must step up the process of european integration, including through the creation of a 'defence union' and the support of the high representative by the member states. as regards russia, the current economic sanctions are the result of its aggressive action in eastern ukraine and revisionist action on the annexation of crimea, but this should not be an obstacle to the continuation of the dialogue in the bilateral relationship. the eu can also play an important role in resolving the conflicts in syria and yemen. i support the adoption of this important report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the rapporteur stresses that the eu needs to strengthen its security and defence capabilities, as it can only use its full potential as a world power if it combines its unquestionable non-coercive power with coercive power, as part of its comprehensive approach. the report recalls that strengthening common civil and military capabilities is essential for the eu to fully respond to crises, build resilience among partners and protect europe. it turns out that, with power relations once again dominating international relations, defense and deterrence capabilities are fundamental to our leverage in diplomatic negotiations. in this regard, the rapporteur reaffirms that the common security and defence policy must be strengthened and intensified, as the only realistic way to strengthen our military capabilities in this period of budgetary constraints is to increase synergies, by intensifying defence cooperation, based on the needs of all member states, and by focusing on investment.
in writing. ‒ agricultural activity is dependent on biological processes. it is thus highly dependent on climatic conditions and affected by plant and animal diseases, phenomena that cannot be controlled by farmers. volatility is a complex phenomenon with multiple and sometimes controversial origins. the increasing globalisation of agricultural trade entails health risks and risks of exogenous supply and demand shocks linked to the european union's external policies in the field of trade, diplomacy and development cooperation. i voted for better transparency in the markets and better protection of farmers' incomes so that they can offer products that do not endanger human health.
in writing. ‒ over time, the cap has undergone major reforms in successive cycles that have profoundly changed its functioning. these reforms have progressively oriented the cap towards markets. this is the context in which the first reflections on the potential role of risk management tools to combat volatility and stabilise revenues emerged. the volatility of agricultural prices is one of the main factors behind the catastrophic situation faced by european farmers today. this insecure environment for farmers is a long-term threat to european food independence. the european commission should study ways to prevent and combat crises of price volatility through countercyclical aid instruments, which can protect farmers' incomes much more effectively, but also through greater market transparency, by creating price observatories.
in writing. ‒ we need effective eu measures that will protect farmers as well as consumers against unfair trade practices. the farmers are the weakest link of the food chain while being the most important one. the future cap should look at new ways to combat price volatility and stabilise farmers’ income; the current system doesn’t work or is too slow to react to market imbalances such as the russian embargo or international low demand of agricultural products. this report, together with the andrieu report on the cap capacity of generating and maintain rural jobs, are the first steps toward the next cap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will protect farmers through effective eu measures, as well as consumers, against unfair trading practices. the report seeks new ways to combat price volatility and aims to stabilise farmers' incomes. farmers are the weakest link in the food chain, but also the most important. the current system is not working or is too slow to react to market imbalances such as the russian embargo or reduced international demand for agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy represents the agricultural policy of the eu implementing a system of agricultural subsidies and other programmes. i have voted for this report regarding cap tools to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the common agricultural policy is one of the most tangible and concrete eu policies, with substantial sums from the eu budget being invested in it every year, and the creation of instruments to balance spending in this area is very necessary for both farmers and consumers. as more and more european agricultural producers have been facing major economic problems in recent years, caused by climatic conditions or various animal diseases, i believe that the eu can implement a number of instruments to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. the document adopted today proposes better predictability of the costs of agricultural production, with a view to ensuring a fair income for producers and a price that is affordable for consumers, and one of the solutions proposed in the report is the creation of price observatories.
in writing. ‒ agricultural markets are subject to successive shocks in the two market components (demand and supply), the structural elements of agriculture and the price of agricultural products, with agricultural supply being affected by climate change and related phenomena (drought, flooding), the effects of pests, structural factors, environmental and animal protection policies, trade policies, etc. as such, farmers face an increase in production costs, combined with an increase in their indebtedness, which has led to a decrease in agricultural production and rural employment. moreover, the increase in the global population, which is largely undernourished, contributes to the increase in the phenomenon of price volatility in agriculture. moreover, agricultural markets, where demand meets supply, are inherently unstable, making the eu's mission to ensure food security and help european farmers and vegetable producers compete in the world market all the more difficult. but the eu has not only the risk management tools of the cap, but also the possibility of building a coherent agricultural policy with specific strategic instruments at european and national level.
in writing. ‒ the european union's common agricultural policy (cap) was designed as an effective instrument to support this sector, which is so necessary to ensure food security for european consumers. unfortunately, the agricultural market has been characterised in recent years by increasing instability and increased price volatility due to a rapid succession of changes in demand, supply and prices. the current cap, although it includes a number of provisions designed to ensure the stabilisation of agricultural incomes, fails to manage the current situation and producers are increasingly vulnerable, while the rest of the production chain is not affected. in these circumstances, reform of the cap is needed, by introducing increased support for producers and organisations in the field, greater transparency of contracts and improved tools for monitoring agricultural markets and prices. in order to protect farmers' incomes, risk management, crisis prevention and management tools are also needed to be included in countercyclical measures. european farmers must be protected against unfair trading practices to the same extent as consumers. it is an important report for european agriculture and i support its adoption.
madam president, i would like to express, first of all, my solidarity with the greek authorities and people and their efforts towards recovery, human dignity and social justice. the situation in greece shows that the policy of austerity is at a dead end. the eu acquis labour issues should also be applied in greece, and it must be ensured that greece will not be the exception as regards labour rights. the collective labour contracts are a very important acquis which must also be applied for greece. i hope that athens, despite the international monetary fund’s protest, will be able to restore collective bargaining following its elimination on the terms of the second bailout programme in 2012. there is no need to tighten rules on strikes or to allow lockouts, which are a way for employers to ban workers during strikes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (review of the suspension mechanism) (com (2016) 0290 - c8-0176/2016 - 2016/0142 (cod)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the parliament, the last-minute addition of this point in the plenary agenda was a very welcome one to me. the agreement on the reinforced suspension mechanism goes beyond the importance of the mechanism itself. let me start by expressing my thanks to our rapporteur, mr agustín díaz de mera, for his excellent work. i know it was not an easy job. you did it. without his commitment it would not have been possible to reach an agreement before the end of the year. i also want to express my thanks to the council presidency, which brokered the deal in the council. both institutions made decisive steps towards each other at the last minute, which made the agreement possible. the commission also made some concessions for the sake of an overall agreement – for example, by accepting some elements of automaticity introduced by the council. we also committed to taking into consideration the categories proposed by the member states and to ensuring that these categories are sufficiently large to address in a proportionate way the circumstances. the commission has made declarations in that respect to coreper. overall we have jointly succeeded in making the suspension mechanism a more effective instrument for our common visa policy. it will enable the european union to react quickly in situations of strong migratory pressures or high security risks by suspending the visa exemption for certain third-country nationals. the final outcome allows for a flexible approach and a proportionate reaction to the circumstances encountered. very importantly, it also allows for a dialogue with the third country concerned to remedy the situation that led to the suspension. by adopting this strengthened suspension mechanism we will be able to pursue our visa liberalisation strategy based on stronger safeguards. i am pleased to know that the trilogue on visa liberalisation for georgia has been successful, and i am looking forward to the same outcome for ukraine. these two countries have concluded a series of reforms to implement their so-called visa liberalisation road map, and it is now for us to deliver and grant to their citizens visa-free travel to europe. our common priority now is to accelerate the procedures for the entry into force of the suspension mechanism as well as for the adoption of the visa liberalisation proposals for georgia and ukraine. we have delivered on the commitments made to our partners. the correct implementation of visa-free travel for georgia and ukraine will only be beneficial mutually, enhancing the cultural and economic exchanges and strengthening mobility between these countries and the european member states. it is an important and symbolic achievement, bringing people and nations closer. i hope that it will become a reality early in spring thanks to the agreement on the suspension mechanism that we are discussing today.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i also congratulate our colleague augustin diaz de mera, who amended the regulation very well and under pressure, with late-night negotiations - i participated in them as rapporteur for my group. the visa waiver suspension mechanism is currently not adequate and that is why we have basically changed the regulation as regards the suspension process and we will vote on this tomorrow. it's very important to understand that the credibility of the european union is at stake, which grants visa-free travel to some countries and then obviously expects those countries to continue the progress and the criteria that they met at the time of the visa-free travel. if they step back, it's not normal for them to continue to benefit from visa exemption. it is also our credibility in the eyes of european citizens, who see that we have exempted citizens of certain countries from visas, but then they see that they are breaking public order, they see that they are not coming with good and clean intentions to the territory of the union and are creating problems. that's why it's very good for credibility. what we are changing, very briefly, is: the deadlines for requesting visa waiver suspension have been shortened, also the grounds for requesting visa waiver suspension have been increased and one of them is new, namely non-compliance with the obligation to readmit migrants where such agreements exist. a new mechanism has also been introduced to verify whether the criteria that existed when a particular state was exempted from visa requirements still apply and whether there has been no regression. everyone will be more responsible, both the member states and the union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i supported today in the european parliament the revision of the visa waiver mechanism for citizens of non-eu countries to make it more effective and flexible, especially in the context of the political situation and the migration phenomenon facing the european union. visa policy is an important issue for the european union, with both internal and external repercussions. the successive visa liberalisation procedures have made it necessary to revise the suspension mechanism for visa-free travel, with the novelty that the european parliament will have the right to participate in these types of decision-making. this review is based on the need to have tools that enable the european union to respond to unforeseen circumstances, such as an increase in the number of non-eu nationals staying illegally or threats to security on european territory. i also reiterated that this flexibility must be accompanied by a set of measures to guarantee the protection of fundamental human rights, based on statistics received from the relevant european agencies or security bodies. only then will they be able to strike a balance between the safety of eu citizens and the respect of the rights of those coming from outside the eu.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the breach of europol data security related to terrorist investigation files (2016/3031 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, seven years ago, two europol workers inserted a flash drive into a computer and left with confidential information from the institution. europol is involved in the fight against organised crime and, recently, very strongly in the fight against terrorism. this did not affect any judicial investigation that was ongoing, any investigation in general and had no other consequences. there was no leak, there was no cyber attack on it systems. but this incident did happen, which is regrettable and unacceptable. today, however, that would no longer be possible. today, no one could insert a flash drive into a europol computer and take information home because europol operates with databases that are confidential and has very high security capabilities, higher than in many member states; also, capabilities to analyse and process classified information. the security standards at europol today are, i repeat, very high and it cannot happen again. this case is being investigated anyway, but i want to conclude by saying: i believe in europol and that it will not happen again.
mr president, as the new europol regulation will come into force in may 2017, its competences will be expanded and europol will handle even more sensitive information and personal data, it is absolutely crucial that the data processing is done according to strict adherence to the data protection rules and data security requirements. the breach poses larger questions about the data protection standards of this agency. leaked information may also strain relations with other eu states who may be reluctant to share data if it is not properly secured. the commission and the council must explain how the data breach was possible. why did europol first deny the leak and then admit it? how is the downloading of information even possible from the europol database to an external device? commissioner, this is a very important and serious matter.
blue-card question. – in fact, i am romanian and she is bulgarian. we should ask the commission together – and this is the question to you – why does the commission not approach all the eu member states in a non—discriminatory way? at the same time, why does it not apply the important values of solidarity and equality? i would also like also to hear from you if you asked the commission why it did not comply with the obligation to adopt a delegated act, temporarily suspending, for 12 months, the visa waiver for nationals of a third country in those cases of non-respect of the visa reciprocity principle?
in writing. – the stand—off on the signature of ceta between romania and bulgaria and canada, which ended in an agreement to remove visa obligations for the two eastern european countries by the end of 2017, showed that the enforcement of the eu visa reciprocity mechanism is indeed possible for all european countries if enough pressure is applied from the european side. it is sad, however, that when presenting this agreement, the president of the european commission mentioned that the citizens of the countries in question are entitled to these visa rights, but on the other hand made it clear that this visa liberalisation is still dependent on the adoption of the trade agreement. i believe that it is time that the commission, instead of issuing communications, took concrete measures to ensure that third countries stop differentiating between eu member states and between eu citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i appreciate the european commission's concern to strengthen the most important value of the european union, namely the free movement of persons, and the simplification of the requirements for the presentation of certain official documents is part of this process. but i believe that important steps still need to be taken to make the free movement of persons a reality. recognition of the contents of civil status documents is the next step that we consider necessary to be implemented by the european commission. this allows european citizens to move more easily within the european area, whether they are looking for a better job, studying or simply choosing to settle in another member state. in this context, i stress the need to identify effective mechanisms and procedures to ensure that these rules are supplemented for the benefit of citizens. however, i would point out that it is mandatory to find the means necessary to guarantee the security and legal force of the civil status documents by preventing their falsification. as regards civil partnerships, in particular those concluded between persons of the same sex, i ask the commission to show particular concern and increased attention, taking into account that in some states they are not recognised, as is the case in romania. i would point out to you, commissioner, and to all those concerned, that another approach on the part of the commission, namely to respect national legislation, would only be in breach of the treaties and that this would certainly not be possible in the european union.
blue-card question. – colleague, we saw two days ago a vote to reduce the meps’ remit with the corbett report. your committee is so important in reconnecting the institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them; do you not think it might be time that parliament should give this committee more power, more instruments and more political tools in order to achieve its main goal?
madam president, statistical analyses show that the majority of petitioners whose petitions are declared inadmissible continue to confuse european and national competences and the eu institutions with those of the council of europe or the european court of human rights. this is not surprising, however, as the european commission has a rather narrow interpretation of the eu's competences in this area. when citizens feel that their fundamental rights have been violated, but not in the context of eu competence, they can turn to the european court of human rights after national remedies have been exhausted. european citizens are not lawyers, they only see that european law is declaratory in protecting their fundamental rights, but when they turn to the european institutions on specific issues, they point to the national authorities and say: this is not the competence of the union. the infringement of fundamental rights affects citizens at their most sensitive point, and a much broader interpretation of the law and a more active approach by the european commission would be needed.
in writing. i am saddened to see, after examining the report, that in 2016 citizens of the member states are not aware that they have the possibility to address the european parliament directly to draw attention to issues that affect and concern them. in a context where the european union is going through the most difficult times since its creation, the 47% drop in the number of petitions is a worrying situation. i believe that this decline is due to the lack of promotion of the petition tool among citizens. both the european parliament and members of the european parliament should make greater efforts to inform citizens about the right to petition. cooperation with the european ombudsman, who can check the work of the european institutions when referring citizens, is also important. the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman are two special bodies which serve directly the interests of european citizens and i therefore believe that they should be provided with the necessary means of information to be able to promote their role directly among them.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the epp group has insisted on the adoption of an urgent resolution on the demolition by china of the tibetan buddhist academy in larung gar. under the pretext of tackling a health problem, china is violating one of the fundamental principles enshrined in its own constitution, namely, religious freedom. it is again a direct attack on tibetan religion and culture. the human rights situation in tibet continues to deteriorate, and china has just passed a whole legal arsenal of security laws, which allows it to target minorities, such as tibetans and uighurs. for ilham tohti, his place is not in prison, but in the university, where he has worked to teach and promote the values of tolerance and coexistence between different communities. i regret that the eu-china human rights dialogue did not take place in 2016, when there is no shortage of topics for discussion. it would seem that one of the reasons for this is the visit of the dalai lama to strasbourg last september, which rightly aroused tremendous interest on the part of our colleagues.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the world's largest buddhist center is being demolished by the chinese authorities. so far, more than 4,500 people have been evacuated from the centre and about 1,500 homes have been destroyed. many of the evacuees, especially children, are taken to schools where they are taught only in chinese, leave school without knowing tibetan, and where they are practically brainwashed, as they say. they're trying to destroy a culture, they're trying to create a generation that has no memory of tibetan culture. these generations must be saved and this also depends on the european union in its relations with china. i would like to say that, in fact, what china has been doing for years, for many, many years, is waging a war against tibetan culture, to annihilate it, and i hope that it will not be necessary, as in 2011, for people to set themselves on fire in order to have their voices heard.
madam president, when the chinese authorities began arbitrarily bulldozing thousands of homes in larung gar, it was not only buildings that were destroyed in the process but, more importantly, thousands of lives. at least 2 000 residents have been expelled without any compensation and forced to sign documents pledging that they will not return. many of them were forcefully evicted to far-off desolate camps. nuns rinzin dolma, semga and tsering dolma, who committed suicide because of harassment by the authorities, were only the last to join the depressing numbers of victims of chinese repression – including more than 140 tibetans who have set fire to themselves since 2011. the european parliament is right in urging the chinese government to reverse course, stop the demolitions and evictions and permit the practice of buddhist faith and tibetan culture without interference.
mr president, the rohingya continue to suffer persecution, arbitrary detention, torture, forced displacement, abuse and severe legal, economic, social and religious discrimination in myanmar. they continue to be arbitrarily deprived of their citizenship and therefore remain stateless. their inhumane conditions must come to an end. undoubtedly, human rights abuses against the rohingya communities and refugees constitute a threat to regional security in south—east asia, and a lasting solution to their extremely vulnerable situation can only be found in a regional framework with the participation of all countries concerned. at the same time, we have to address this issue in a very balanced way, considering outside extremist influences. i therefore support the call on the government of myanmar to investigate and, through concrete steps, to counter all forms of persecution, arbitrary detention, torture, forced displacement, abuse and discrimination against the rohingya, to fulfil its responsibility to protect them against violent attacks, intimidation and harassment, and to solve the problem of their legal citizenship status.
mr president, the visa suspension mechanism for third countries whose nationals require visas to enter the european union is much more flexible after the adoption of this regulation. we also have a new surveillance system, which the commission can trigger immediately and in a very short time. the grounds for visa suspension have been extended and i will mention some of the new grounds introduced now by this vote: the rapid and significant increase in the number of people staying illegally in the territory of the european union, also the unfounded asylum applications from the citizens of these countries who have been granted visa exemption, the imminent risks and threats to public order and internal security of the respective member states.
in writing. ‒ visa policy is a fundamental issue for the european union, with repercussions on both external action and internal security. its importance is so great that its treatment is clearly regulated as a competence shared between the co-legislators by means of the ordinary legislative procedure. the amendment to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 adopted by the european parliament and the council on 11 december 2013 introduced substantive elements such as the 'suspension mechanism', the amendment of which is the subject of this report, without forgetting the amendment of the reciprocity mechanism, as a way of counteracting this first element. i voted in favour of this report, taking into account the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular in view of the successive visa liberalisation procedures, which lead to a review of the suspension mechanism in order to make it more flexible.
in writing. ‒ visa policy is a fundamental issue for the european union, with repercussions on both external action and internal security. the evolution of the political and migration situation, in particular in view of the successive visa liberalisation procedures, requires a review of the suspension mechanism in order to make it more flexible and supple. we need to have elements that allow the eu to respond to circumstances with different characteristics. i voted to change this mechanism which must be more flexible and accompanied by a solid set of guarantees and protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that, after difficult negotiations, we have reached an agreement under which both member states and the european commission will be able to trigger the suspension mechanism. the commission will be in charge of monitoring the situation in visa-exempt countries and reporting to parliament and the council on whether they still fulfil visa waiver conditions, such as respect for human rights. we reached a deal where the european parliament could have an important role in suspending the visa waiver of a certain country while deblocking the related visa liberalisation files with important countries and partners, such as georgia and ukraine. finally, the european parliament will play an important role when it comes to re-imposing visa requirements.
in writing. ‒ the visa policy is an essential subject for the european union with effects on external action and internal security. i am in favour of this report that will revise the visa suspension mechanism to make it more up to date and flexible in order to face current political and migratory situations.
in writing. ‒ the european union's visa policy reflects its relations with third countries and the agreements signed to exempt their nationals from visas, at least in the short term. in certain situations, however, unforeseeable events generating a large flow of migrants seeking to reach the eu territory for the purpose of seeking asylum or readmission generate the need for special measures by member states and european institutions to strengthen internal security. the visa waiver is a visa waiver for citizens of the union who are not nationals of the member states and who are not entitled to stay in the territory of the member states. these measures are to be temporary, for a period of 9 months, with the possibility of extension for 18 months if the situation persists or of interruption if the necessary conditions, mainly respect for human rights, are fulfilled. the commission will work with the member states and the third state concerned to remedy that situation. the european parliament will be able to be involved in this procedure and to express its position. it is an obvious step forward, which meets the requirements of some of the member states and will generate more security for european citizens. i support the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community is contrary to the objectives of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 as it undermines the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits exposed to pests, in particular as regards phyllosticta citricarpa and xanthomonas citri. it is not in accordance with union legislation as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to determine the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic, animal or plant parasites harmful to plants or plant products ('pests'). this non-conformity led me to vote in favour of this resolution. i consider that, in this context, over-regulation does not contribute to a better functioning of the system, but on the contrary leads to dysfunctions that can cause a number of risks.
in writing. ‒ the history of the 'xyllela fastidiosa' disease in italy and the introduction of invasive alien species into europe shows that it is necessary to ensure that all imports of plants or products are free from pests. one infected plant can destroy an entire sector of an entire region's economy. i therefore support the objection to the import of citrus fruit raised by our colleague, mrs clara aguilera.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of the xyllela fastidiosa in italy and the introduction of invasive alien species in europe show that we need to ensure that all imports of plants or plants products are free of pests. one infected plant can destroy a whole sector or the economy of a whole region. the phytosanitary risk is particularly high for the warmer regions of europe, while most of the citrus imports for processing are to regions less susceptible to being infected by pests coming from outside europe. nevertheless, the risk that pests arriving in the north of europe could be transferred to warmer regions and thus infect citrus plants in europe exists, and according to the recommendation of the eppo (european and mediterranean plant protection organisation), the only effective treatment that guarantees a high protection is the cold treatment.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution regarding protective measures against the introduction of organisms harmful to plants and plants products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it corrects an error in the commission's proposal for a directive which would have been in contradiction with other aspects of european legislation on the protection of plants or plant products against organisms harmful to them. in this respect, i support the amendments made by this report to the original proposal and believe that they bring the necessary adjustments to make eu legislation in this area coherent.
in writing. ‒ the european union must monitor food and plant safety in the member states. in the case of certain imported products, there is a risk that certain organisms harmful to plants or plant products may enter the territory of the member states and affect by their spread similar crops within the union. this is particularly the case for citrus fruits imported from third countries and whose pests, such as xyllela fastidiosa, can destroy existing crops in the southern states of the union. therefore, effective protection measures against the spread of those pests, such as cold treatment, as recommended by the european and mediterranean plant protection organisation (eppo), and careful quality control of imported products are required. this is a major measure. the amendment to the regulation proposed by the commission is not in line with the european legislation in force and needs substantial improvement. for these reasons, i support the adoption of this necessary resolution.
mr president, the shallow control of certain pharmaceutical products has led to the tragedy of thalidomide, a drug that was prescribed and administered to pregnant women. the use of this drug has resulted in children being born with malformations, and this was happening in the 1960's. these children are alive today, and there are thousands of people who are suffering from this drug. many of them, those who survived, cannot afford the costs of medical and social services, even though they have serious and permanent conditions. this is why i ask the commission to create a legal framework for all thalidomide affected patients to receive similar support and compensation.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the resolution is to put pressure on the german government to extend the funding available for thalidomide survivors in germany to those survivors from other countries concerned. the timing of the resolution is crucially important, as in january 2017 the german parliament will amend a law on the rules for providing financial support. thalidomide survivors should be formally recognised in all member states concerned and be finally given adequate and fair compensation from the special health fund of the german contergan stiftung.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is a drug that treats diseases by inducing, enhancing or suppressing an immune response, used mainly as a treatment of certain cancers or complications of leprosy. in the 1950s and 1960s it was used to treat headaches, coughs and insomnia and resulted in the death and malformation of thousands of babies when used by pregnant women across the eu. i am in favour of this motion of a resolution that will formally recognise and provide compensation to thalidomide survivors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the european union must give an impetus to the member states so that the victims of thalidomide are recognised and receive the necessary support. of course, in germany there are more people who have been affected by this substance, but we must not forget that there are victims in other eu countries too, and they need to be recognised both within the states and at the union level in order to be able to receive the necessary aid and support.
in writing. ‒ ensuring the safety of medicines for the european population is one of the objectives of the european union institutions. without it, some medicines marketed without proper prior research can have devastating effects on those who use them in their treatment. one such case is that of thalidomide, marketed by the german company chemie gruenenthal in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a safe medicine for the treatment of morning sickness, migraine, cough, insomnia and colds, which led to death and malformation in thousands of babies in many european countries. the german state's legal action did not allow for adequate compensation for the victims, neither in germany nor in other european states. furthermore, survivors of these treatments need increased assistance for health, mobility and independent living needs. for these reasons, it is necessary to adopt eu-wide rules as soon as possible to allow for the necessary assistance to be provided to affected persons in all member states, as well as appropriate compensation, including from the company responsible. it is more than necessary to correct an unacceptable situation; that is why i strongly support the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that priority should be given to medicines developed by different companies, based on scientific studies, to meet the therapeutic needs of children, especially those affected by cancer, through the best available therapies, which would allow the optimisation of resources used for research.
in writing. ‒ the fact that many children suffering from rare paediatric diseases, such as cancer, do not have access to targeted paediatric medicines is not tolerable. off-label use of medicines prescribed by doctors based on experience rather than based on targeted paediatric clinical research is still common, and many fields of paediatric medicine lack the necessary innovation in development of new medicines. the paediatric regulation has had a positive effect on paediatric drug development and has led to tangible benefits for a series of childhood diseases, but not enough progress has been made in a number of fields. we need to foster innovation in paediatric medicines to ensure that in the future all children can be treated with medicines that have been developed for and proved effective and safe for use for children. the commission should deliver its report in good time and give due consideration to the system of pips and incentives while ensuring transparency of research and development.
in writing. ‒ on 26 january 2007 a new legislation governing the development and authorisation of medicines for children entered into force. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution regarding the paediatric medicines regulation in order to increase innovation in medicinal products for children.
in writing. ‒ there is an urgent need to review the regulation on paediatric medicines. opportunities to develop treatments and cures for serious childhood illnesses are being missed because the current regulation allows companies to avoid paediatric development plans for certain diseases. the full potential of medicines is not being explored because it is not considered to be attractive enough for investors. there should be stronger obligations for research to continue and for paediatric development plans to be developed for all new medicines. where appropriate, increased research can be supported by public money, including the eu health programme. there is already provision for prioritising rare diseases in the current programme, and this resource need to be fully exploited. the human cost of failing to invest in paediatric medicines is completely unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on paediatric medicines is a welcome one, as medicines without therapeutic indications are still widely used in children, where the risks are very high, precisely because of their particular vulnerability. the increasing number of paediatric clinical trials, coupled with research projects in the paediatric field, and the fact that the pharmaceutical industries consider that paediatric development should be an integral part of the overall development of a product, highlight the need to amend the current regulation of paediatric medicinal products. moreover, research and innovation in medicines for paediatric populations may sometimes differ from those for adults. the mechanism of action of a medicinal product should therefore form the basis of feasible paediatric development plans based on full transparency of clinical outcomes, but also on an assessment of the costs of research and development, taking into account the benefits of a medicinal product in terms of lives saved.
in writing. ‒ the health of european citizens is an area where the european union has a very important role to play. the use of appropriate, tested and safe medication is the key to cure in certain critical conditions. one of the most vulnerable groups in this respect is children; therefore, the approval of paediatric medicinal products should take into account the state of research in the field so that any adverse effects are avoided as far as possible. the european legislation adopted in this area in 2013 has had a positive effect on the development of the pharmaceutical industry in the paediatric sector, but in some cases more time is needed to carry out rigorous research on new medicines. therefore, an evaluation of the effect of the legislation would be useful with a view to possible revisions to avoid problems that may arise in the treatment of young patients. these reviews should further encourage innovation in this area, while ensuring the highest possible safety of new products. it is a very sensitive area and that is why i support the adoption of the resolution on this subject.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is an essential element of participatory democracy for the effective protection of the right of every citizen to participate directly in the democratic life of the union. through petitions, the european parliament can find out what problems its citizens are facing, provide information and help to solve those problems, and also invite the other eu institutions and the institutions of the member states to make every effort to do so. unfortunately, the number of petitions received by parliament remains modest in relation to the eu population, which indicates that the vast majority of eu citizens and residents are not yet aware of the existence of the right to petition and its possible usefulness as a means of drawing the attention of the eu institutions and member states to issues that affect and concern them. the fact that 1 431 petitions were received in 2015, representing a decrease of 47% compared to 2014, in which parliament received 2 714 petitions, confirms the lack of information about the existence of this right among european citizens. i voted in favour of this report, stressing once again the contribution that petitions can make to identifying gaps in eu law and assessing the effects of the lack of regulation in certain areas.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is an essential element of participatory democracy for the effective protection of the right of every citizen to participate directly in the democratic life of the union. however, in 2015 there were 1,431 petitions received, which is a decrease of 47% compared to 2014. this number is modest in relation to the eu population. the committee on petitions reported better and faster petition processing in 2015. annual statistics show that the majority of citizens ask parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. following the recent events in the uk, the committee on petitions is faced with a significant opportunity and challenge to carry out this dialogue with citizens, which has the potential to reconnect eu institutions and citizens. i voted for the report on the work of the committee on petitions and i believe that it has a lot of work to do to regain the trust of the citizens and to become a pillar for european citizens again.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which highlights the main activities of the petitions committee. as the committee that deals directly with citizens, the committee has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens by directly involving them and assessing the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives, which is an extremely important role. i believe there was a need to deal with some obstacles in the treatment of petitions such as the commission’s strict interpretation of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights or the need for greater transparency on infringement procedures. the report will also bring improvements in the petitions web portal where citizens can upload their petitions. i strongly welcome the agreements reached by the majority when drawing up these guidelines and the maintenance of the same procedures and deadlines.
in writing. ‒ most citizens tend to search assistance from the european parliament for matters regarding environment, justice, internal market and fundamental rights. i am in favour of this report regarding the activities of the committee on petitions taking into consideration that the right to petition the european parliament represents a cornerstone of european citizenship.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 annual report is purely an informative one, as it gives an overview of the work of the committee on petitions. the committee of petitions was established by citizens to give them the possibility to petition parliament and share their concerns over various eu policies and legislation. the report provides statistics on the number of petitions received, dealt with and closed by the committee, the countries concerned and the matters raised. according to the statistics, in 2015 the european parliament received 1 431 petitions. i support this report as i believe in the necessity of such an instrument in order to increase transparency in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed, as part of the aviation strategy for europe, to open negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china, and on eu-level air services agreements with china, turkey, mexico, six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean. in this context, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations on the abovementioned agreements, but parliament's consent is also required for the conclusion of international agreements in areas covered by the ordinary legislative procedure. under current rules, when the commission negotiates agreements between the union and third countries or international organisations, parliament must be 'immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure'. i support the full involvement of parliament in such negotiations, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need and obligation to take parliament's opinion into account in the context of such decisions of such importance to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european commission should provide the relevant committee of parliament with the necessary information on its intention to propose negotiations for the conclusion and amendment of international agreements in the field of aviation.
in writing. ‒ the single eu aviation market has been developed through dramatic changes in the economic and regulatory landscape of air transport in europe to the benefit of consumers and business. the creation of the single eu aviation market has also had implications for the eu's external aviation relations, leading to the development of the eu's external aviation policy. closer international relations will not only provide access to new markets, but also allow the eu to ensure high standards of safety and security in international air transport as well as to work with others more effectively to address the impact of aviation on the environment and to safeguard fair competition in an increasingly globalised and liberalised aviation market.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution regarding international aviation agreements proposed in the aviation strategy for europe which is an initiative to generate growth for european business, foster innovation and let passenger profit from safer, cleaner and cheaper flight while offering more connections.
in writing. ‒ in the past 30 years the european union has created the world’s largest and most successful single aviation market, which developed through dramatic changes in the economic and regulatory landscape. however, today the european union is not only focusing on the internal aviation market, but also on a harmonised external aviation policy, that would benefit the eu economy and its citizens. i salute this report, although i would like to stress that these agreements should not only focus on economic gains, but also on air safety standards for crew and passengers, and the rights of employees.
